Contact information Read instructions on this website: https://rppa-appr.ca/eng/air-travel-complaints

Call at 1 888 689-BAGS (2247)

 
 
Visit our COVID-19 information hub for Air Canada’s response to the pandemic and how to adjust your current or future travel with us.
Our Customer Commitment under the Canadian Air Passenger Protection Regulations
We’re committed to providing the highest quality of service to all our customers, and we believe it’s important to make our service commitments readily available to you. To this end, below we have outlined the key elements that matter most to you, our valued customer.
My flight is delayed or cancelled:
If you are denied boarding, your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours, or your baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights, please contact your air carrier or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency’s website
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
.
For full terms and conditions applicable to your carriage please consult our tariffs.
Quick Links

Lost, delayed or damaged baggage
Delays or cancellations
Denied boarding
Seating children
Tariffs
Additional Air Canada policies
Delayed or damaged baggage
We work hard to ensure your checked baggage arrives with you. If it is delayed, please be assured we will do our best to deliver it to you within 24 hours. If you cannot locate your checked baggage upon arrival, please make sure to see an Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express agent immediately.
If you have already completed a WorldTracer incident report and have an incident report number (example: YULAC12345), you can update or review the status of your delayed baggage by accessing the WorldTracer website.
If you have not completed an incident report upon arrival, you must contact our Central Baggage Office without delay at 1 888 689-BAGS (2247).
If your baggage is delayed, damaged, or lost, Air Canada will refund the fees you paid to check it in.
In respect to destruction, loss, delay, or damage to baggage, a carrier’s liability is limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per passenger. This limit applies to most international itineraries, as well as to domestic itineraries within Canada. For more information on Special Drawing Rights and currency exchange rates, visit the International Monetary Fund
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
website.
You will be reimbursed for reasonable interim out-of-pocket expenses upon submitting your receipts via our webform
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
(select Baggage Issues > Baggage > Submit Expenses). Claims must be submitted no later than 21 days from the date your baggage was placed at your disposal.
Read more about our delayed and damaged baggage policies or review our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 60).
If your flight is delayed by more than three hours or cancelled due to a situation that is within our control or required for safety purposes, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:

We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express flight, or on one of our partner airlines within 9 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination that departs within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we’re still unable to provide a confirmed reservation that complies with the above, we’ll seek to re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport.
We can also change your return to match the same length of stay if necessary.
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.

We invite you to read more information on delays, cancellations and refunds, or to consult our tariffs.

Compensation
If you’re a passenger whose flight was cancelled or delayed because of a situation within our control, and you arrive at your original destination with a delay of three hours or more, you’ll be entitled to receive compensation for delays and cancellations from Air Canada (unless you are informed of the cancellation or of the delay 15 days before the scheduled time of departure).
Compensation for delays and cancellations is calculated based on your arrival time at final destination and is $400 CAD (for delays at arrival between 3 and 6 hours), $700 CAD (for delays at arrival between 6 and 9 hours), and $1,000 CAD (for delays at arrival by 9 hours and more).
If you refuse the alternate travel arrangements offered because travelling no longer serves a purpose, and the delay is within our control, you’ll be entitled to receive compensation of $400 CAD.
Please note that you are not entitled to receive delay or cancellation compensation if you have already been paid denied boarding compensation, or if you have already been paid under another passenger rights regime for the same event.
Your Recourses:
Should you wish to provide feedback or file a complaint about our services, please complete our web form
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
and we’ll contact you shortly. You may also file a complaint with the Canadian Transportation Agency
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.

If you’re denied boarding due to a situation that is within our control or required for safety purposes, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:
We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge or Air Canada Express flight or on one of our partner airlines within 9 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination that departs within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we’re still unable to provide a confirmed reservation that complies with the above, we’ll re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport;
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.
Standard of Treatment:
If you’re denied boarding for a situation within Air Canada’s control or for security reasons, we’ll provide you with the following before you board your next flight booked as part of your alternate travel arrangements, unless this would further delay you:
Food and drink in reasonable quantities, considering the length of the wait, the time of day and location;
Access to a means of communication; and
Hotel or comparable accommodations for overnight delays for out-of-town passengers, subject to availability within reasonable distance from airport, along with transportation to the hotel or other accommodation, and back to the airport.
Compensation:
If you’re a passenger who is denied boarding involuntarily because of a situation within our control, you’ll be entitled to receive "denied boarding compensation" from Air Canada, unless:
You haven’t fully complied with the Air Canada ticketing and check-in requirements, or you aren’t acceptable for transportation under Air Canada' rules and practices. For more information on refusal to transport, see our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 75);
The flight is cancelled or delayed;
You’re offered accommodations on the same flight as the one specified on your ticket, at no extra charge.

Denied boarding compensation is calculated based on your arrival time at destination and is $900 CAD (if delayed between 0 and 6 hours), $1,800 CAD (if delayed between 6 and 9 hours), and $2,400 CAD (if delayed by 9 hours and more).
Read more about travelling on a different flight for compensation. The complete rules explaining your rights, the payment of compensation and boarding priorities are available at all airport counters and boarding locations, as well as in our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 90).
* Please note that if you were denied boarding on a codeshare flight (operated by another airline than Air Canada), we recommend that you contact the carrier directly, as the obligation to provide compensation and alternate travel arrangements is the responsibility of the carrier operating the flight.

Passengers on a journey involving an ultimate destination or a stop in a country other than the country of departure are advised that international treaties known as the Montreal Convention, or its predecessor, the Warsaw Convention (including its amendments) may apply to the entire journey, including any portion thereof within a country. For such passengers, the applicable treaty, including special contracts of carriage embodied in any applicable tariffs, governs and may limit the liability of the carrier.
Notice of liability limitations
The Montreal Convention or the Warsaw Convention system may be applicable to your journey and these Conventions govern and may limit the liability of air carriers for death or bodily injury, for loss, delay, or damage to baggage.
Where the Montreal Convention applies, the limits of liability are as follows:
No financial limits for death or bodily injury.
With respect to destruction, loss of, or damage or delay to baggage, 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per passenger, in most cases. Please note that pursuant to the Canadian Air Passenger Protection Regulations, this limit also applies to Canadian domestic itineraries.
For damage caused by delay to your journey, 5,346 Special Drawing Rights per passenger, in most cases.
Where the Warsaw Convention system applies, the limits of liability are as follows:
16,600 Special Drawing Rights with respect to death or bodily injury if the Hague Protocol to the Convention applies, or 8,300 Special Drawing Rights if only the Warsaw Convention applies. Many carriers have voluntarily waived these limits in their entirety, and U.S. regulations require that, for journeys to, from or with an agreed stopping place in the U.S., the limit may not be inferior to U.S. $75,000.
17 Special Drawing Rights per kg for loss of or damage or delay to checked baggage and 332 Special Drawing Rights* for unchecked baggage.
The carrier may also be liable for damage caused by delay.
For more information on Special Drawing Rights and currency exchange rates, visit the International Monetary Fund
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
website.
Further information may be obtained from Air Canada as to the limits applicable to your journey. If your journey involves carriage by different carriers, you should contact each carrier for information on the applicable limits of liability.
Regardless of which Convention applies to your journey, you may benefit from a higher limit of liability for loss, delay, or damage to baggage by making a declaration of your baggage value at check-in and paying any supplementary fee that may apply. Alternatively, if your baggage value exceeds the applicable limit of liability, you should fully insure it before you travel.
Time limit for action: Any action in court to claim damages must be brought within two years from the date of arrival of the aircraft, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived.
Baggage claims: Written notice to the carrier must be made within 7 days of the receipt of checked baggage in the case of damage, and, in the case of delay, within 21 days from the date on which it was placed at the disposal of the passenger.
Baggage Fee: For lost, damaged or delayed baggage, the carrier will also compensate you for any fees that may have been paid to check that baggage.
Notice of contract terms incorporated by reference
Your contract of carriage with the carrier that provides you with carriage by air, whether international, domestic or a domestic portion of an international journey, is subject to this notice; to any notice or receipt of the carrier; and to the carrier's individual terms and conditions (Conditions), related rules, regulations and policies (Regulations) and any applicable tariffs.
If your carriage is by more than one carrier, different Conditions, Regulations and any applicable tariffs may apply for each carrier.
The Conditions, Regulations and any applicable tariffs of each carrier are, by this notice, incorporated by reference into and made part of your contract of carriage.
The Conditions may include, but are not restricted to:
Conditions and limits on the carrier's liability for the bodily injury or death of passengers.
Conditions and limits on the carrier's liability for the loss of, damage to or delay of goods and baggage, including fragile or perishable goods.
Rules for declaring a higher baggage value and for paying any supplementary fee that may apply.
Application of the carrier's Conditions and limits of liability to the acts of the carrier's agents, servants and representatives, including any person providing either equipment or services to the carrier.
Claims restrictions, including time limits by which passengers must file claims or bring actions against the carrier.
Rules about reconfirmations or reservations; check-in times; the use, duration and validity of air transportation services; and the carrier's right to refuse carriage.
Rights of the carrier and limits on the carrier's liability for delay or failure to perform a service, including schedule changes, substitution of alternative carriers or aircraft and re-routing, and, when required by applicable law, the obligation of the carrier to notify passengers of the identity of the operating carrier or substituted aircraft.
Rights of the carrier to refuse carriage to passengers who fail to comply with applicable laws or who fail to present all necessary travel documents.

You can obtain more information about your contract of carriage, and find out how to request a copy, at places where transportation on the carrier is sold. Many carriers also have this information on their websites. When required by applicable law, you have the right to inspect the full text of your contract of carriage at the carrier's airport and sales offices, and to receive a copy by mail or other delivery service from each carrier free of charge, upon request.
If a carrier sells air transportation services or checks baggage specifying carriage on another carrier, it does so only as an agent for the other carrier.
China departing flights only
Passenger notifications
In the event that a flight is delayed, cancelled or diverted due to an unforeseen problem, we will make every effort to keep you well informed at the airport and onboard the affected aircraft. Based on the information we have, we will promptly provide timely updates, within 30 minutes of becoming aware of such a cancellation, delay or diversion, and explain the reason for the delay, cancellation or diversion through various methods, such as:
onboard/gate announcements
our Flight Status tool on our website
the airport Flight Information Display Systems
calling Air Canada Reservations

You may also register for our Flight Notification Service to receive delay or cancellation information or gate change details for your flight.
Flight delays and cancellations
If you are affected by a situation that causes a delay or flight cancellation, we provide the details of how Air Canada will assist you.
Response plan for Tarmac Delays
Our contingency plan for lengthy tarmac delays at Chinese airports is intended to provide you with information regarding Air Canada's policies and procedures for handling your travel on our airline in the event of a lengthy ground delay, while you are onboard our aircraft at a Chinese airport.
Air Canada Privacy Policy
Last update: 9 September 2022