Contact information Delta Airlines - https://www.delta.com/ca/en/need-help/overview?commentComplaintsForm

DELTA CANADIAN GENERAL RULES TARIFF
[Last Modified: March 1, 2022]
RULE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS .............................................................................................................. 2
RULE 3: SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS ............................................................................................... 3
RULE 5: DEFINITIONS…………………………………………………………………………………………… . 3
RULE 10: PASSPORTS AND VISAS .......................................................................................................... 10
RULE 20: CAPACITY LIMITATIONS ........................................................................................................... 11
RULE 25: PERSONAL DATA....................................................................................................................... 11
RULE 33: CARRIAGE OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES………………………………………………… . .10
RULE 35: REFUSAL TO TRANSPORT………………………………………………………………………..... 13
RULE 40: ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE................................................................................................. 15
RULE 50: ACCEPTANCE OF CHILDREN................................................................................................... 15
RULE 55: SPECIALLY TRAINED SERVICE DOGS………………………………………………………….... 16
RULE 85: SMOKE FREE SERVICE ............................................................................................................ 17
RULE 90: PASSENGER MEDICAL OXYGEN............................................................................................. 17
RULE 95: CLAIMS ....................................................................................................................................... 18
RULE 100: TICKETS...................................................................................................................................... 18
RULE 105: TICKET VALIDITY....................................................................................................................... 20
RULE 110: ISSUANCE OF TICKET STOCK................................................................................................. 21
RULE 115: CONFIRMATION OF RESERVATIONS...................................................................................... 21
RULE 135: CANCELLATION OF RESERVATIONS...................................................................................... 23
RULE 141: VOLUNTARY STANDBY TRAVEL.............................................................................................. 25
RULE 150: APPLICATION OF FARES.......................................................................................................... 26
RULE 160: CURRENCY ................................................................................................................................ 27
RULE 165: FARE CONSTRUCTION ............................................................................................................. 28
RULE 170: ROUND-TRIP FARES ................................................................................................................. 29
RULE 175: CIRCLE-TRIP FARES ................................................................................................................. 29
RULE 180: STOPOVERS .............................................................................................................................. 30
RULE 185: ROUTINGS.................................................................................................................................. 30
RULE 187: MINIMUM FARES........................................................................................................................ 30
RULE 190: BAGGAGE................................................................................................................................... 34
RULE 191: LIABILITY OF CARRIERS .......................................................................................................... 48
RULE 240: FLIGHT DELAYS/CANCELLATIONS ....................................................................................... 53
RULE 245: DENIED BOARDING COMPENSATION..................................................................................... 54
RULE 255: REROUTING ............................................................................................................................... 57
RULE 260: INVOLUNTARY REFUNDS......................................................................................................... 59
RULE 270: VOLUNTARY REFUNDS ............................................................................................................ 61
RULE 390: PREPAID TICKET ADVICE CHARGES...................................................................................... 62
RULE 392: RETURNED CHECK CHARGE................................................................................................... 63
RULE 394: THE DELTA CONNECTION AND DOMESTIC CODESHARE SERVICE................................ 633
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 2 of 63
RULE 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Contract of Carriage
When you buy a ticket for travel on Delta, you enter into a contract of carriage with us. The terms of your
contract are set forth in:
• your Ticket
• these Conditions of Carriage
• our published fare rules and regulations, which may govern the calculation of the fare and other
charges that apply to your itinerary. If your ticket is priced by delta.com, a Delta agent, or a
computer reservation system, these fare rules and regulations will be included in the calculation of
the ticket price that we quote to you.
B. Canadian General Rules Tariff
This document is Delta's Canadian General Rules Tariff. It applies only to transborder travel between points
in Canada and points within the United States of America. It states the terms upon which Delta offers to
transport each passenger on U.S.-Canada transborder itineraries. By purchasing a ticket for travel on Delta,
or by using a ticket purchased for you by someone else, you agree to be bound by each of these terms.
C. Application to Delta Shuttle, and Delta Connection
Unless otherwise provided, any reference to “Delta” in this document refers to Delta Air Lines, and also
refers to the Delta Shuttle, and the Delta Connection carriers.
D. Amendments to Conditions of Carriage
1. Amendment by Delta
Delta may amend these Conditions of Carriage at any time, except as provided by law. Your travel will be
governed by the rules that were in effect on the date you purchased your ticket; provided, however, that
Delta reserves the right to apply rules currently in effect on the date of your travel where reasonably
necessary for operational reasons and where the change in rule does not have a material negative impact
upon you.
2. Authority of Delta Employees & Ticketing Agents
No Delta employee or ticketing agent has the authority to modify any provision of the Conditions of Carriage
unless authorized by a Delta corporate officer. Delta appointed agents and representatives are only
authorized to sell tickets for air transportation pursuant to the approved fares, rules and regulations of Delta.
This rule supersedes any conflicting provision in the contract of carriage.
E. Interline Carriage
Delta will be responsible for furnishing of transportation only over its own lines. When Delta undertakes to
issue a ticket, check baggage, or make any other arrangements for transportation over the lines of any other
carrier (whether or not such transportation is part of a through service), Delta will act only as agent for such
other carrier and will assume no responsibility for the acts or omissions of such other carrier.
F. Fares Applicable Only For Ticketed Itinerary
Fares apply for travel only between the points for which they are published. Tickets may not be issued at
fare(s) published to and/or from a more distant point(s) than the points being traveled, even when issuance
of such tickets would produce a lower fare. When through or connecting passengers enplane at an
intermediate point between the origin and destination shown on their tickets, Delta may require evidence,
such as a boarding pass, of use of a preceding flight for the portion of the ticket from point of origin to
intermediate point. Absent such evidence, Delta may require additional fare collection from the passenger
for any difference between the fare paid for the ticket from origin to destination and the fare which would
apply from the intermediate boarding point to the destination.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 3 of 63
G. Erroneous Fares
Delta will exercise reasonable efforts to ensure that all fares it publishes are accurate and available
for sale, if an erroneous fare is inadvertently published for sale and a ticket is issued at the
erroneous fare before it has been corrected, Delta reserves the right to cancel the ticket purchase
and refund all amounts paid by the purchaser or, at the purchaser’s option, to reissue the ticket for
the correct fare. In this event, Delta will also reimburse any reasonable, actual, and verifiable outof-pocket expenses incurred by the purchaser in reliance upon the ticket purchase. The purchaser
must provide receipts or other evidence of such actual costs incurred in support of any
reimbursement request.
H. Canada Air Passenger Protection Regulations
The Canada Air Passenger Protection Regulations may provide additional protections to passengers traveling to
or from Canada. If you are denied boarding, your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours, or your
baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the
Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights please contact your air
carrier (www.delta.com/appr (which is incorporated into this tariff by reference)) or visit the Canadian
Transportation Agency’s website.
Le Règlement sur la protection des passagers aériens du Canada peut fournir des protections supplémentaires
aux passagers voyageant à destination ou en provenance du Canada. Si l’embarquement vous est refusé, ou si
votre vol est annulé ou retardé d’au moins deux heures ou si vos bagages sont perdus ou endommagés, vous
pourriez avoir droit au titre du Règlement sur la protection des passagers aériens, à certains avantages au titre
des normes de traitement applicables et à une indemnité. Pour plus d'informations sur vos droits de passagers,
veuillez contacter votre transporteur aérien (www.delta.com/appr (qui est incorporé dans ce tarif par référence))
ou visitez le site Web de l'Office des transports du Canada.
RULE 3: SCHEDULES AND OPERATIONS
Delta will use its best efforts to carry the passenger and baggage with reasonable dispatch.
Times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not guaranteed and form no part of this contract.
Delta may, without notice, substitute alternate carriers or aircraft, and may alter or omit stopping
places shown on the ticket in case of necessity. Schedules are subject to change without
notice. Delta is not responsible or liable for making connections, or for failing to operate any
flight according to schedule, or for changing the schedule for any flight.
RULE 5: DEFINITIONS
As used in this tariff or in tariffs making reference hereto, unless otherwise defined:
Add-on - An amount published for use only in combination with other fares for the construction of
through international fares.
Administrative Service Charge (ASC) – A fee charged to cover costs involved in changing or
refunding a passenger’s ticket.
Air/Sea Inclusive Tour - A fully prepaid vacation cruise package offered for sale to the public which
includes in the published price and tour literature, the air fare to/from the cruise and a cruise on a
steamship line.
Air Traffic Conference (ATC) - The division of the Air Transport Association responsible for
coordinating interline operations and agreement between carriers/tour wholesalers/travel agents.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 4 of 63
Animals, in addition to the usual connotation, includes reptiles, birds, poultry and fish.
Applicable Adult Fare means the fare which would be applicable to an adult for the transportation to
be used except those special fares which would be applicable due to the adult’s status (such as
clergy fares, military fares, senior citizen fares, etc.).
Applicable Full Fare means the full adult fare for the class of service designated in the carrier's
official general schedule for the aircraft, or compartment of the aircraft used by the passenger.
Area 1 - Both the North and South American continents, and the islands adjacent thereto, Bermuda,
Greenland, the West Indies and the Caribbean Sea and the Hawaiian Islands (including Midway and
Palmyra).
Area 2 - All of Europe (including that part of the USSR in Europe) and the islands adjacent thereto,
Iceland, the Azores, all of Africa and the islands adjacent thereto, the Ascension Islands and
that part of Asia lying west of, and including, Iran.
Area 3 - All of Asia and the islands adjacent thereto, (except that portion included in area 2) all of
the East Indies, Australia, New Zealand, and the islands adjacent thereto and the islands of the
Pacific Ocean (except those included in area 1).
Caribbean area means:
Anguilla Dominican Republic Nevis
Antigua Grenada St. Kitts
Bahamas Guadeloupe St. Lucia
Barbados Haiti St. Martin
Bermuda Jamaica St. Vincent
British Virgin Islands Leeward Islands Trinidad
Cayman Islands Martinique Tobago
Cuba Montserrat Turks and Caicos Islands
Dominica Netherlands Antilles West Indies and Windward Islands

Carrier means any airline shown as a participant in this tariff.
Central America means Belize, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, and
Panama.
Circle Trip means any trip in which the ultimate destination is the point of origin, but which includes
a stop in at least one other point, or which is not made via the same routing/carrier in both
directions.
 Examples of Circle Trips:
Example 1: Point 1 to Point 2 on airline A
Point 2 to Point 1 on airline B
Example 2: Point 1 to Point 2 to Point 3 on airline A
Example 3: Point 1 to Point 2 on airline A (first class)
Point 2 to Point 1 on airline A or any other airline (coach)
 Coach means the class of service on flights listed in carrier's official general schedules as
coach,day coach, or tourist.
 C.O.B. means "carrying on business under firm name and style of."
 Conjunction Ticket means 2 or more tickets concurrently issued to a passenger and which
together constitute a single contract of a carriage.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 5 of 63
 CFR (United States) means Code of Federal Regulations.
 Consequential Damages means reasonable out of pocket expenses and other provable damages
 incurred by a passenger as the consequence of a loss, damage, or delay in the delivery of
 personal property.
Continental United States means the District of Columbia and all states of the United States other
than Alaska and Hawaii.
Co-Terminal - Two or more relatively adjacent airports which, for the purpose of these fares, will be
considered the same point. Apply to: BWI/IAD/WAS, FLL/MIA, BUR/LAX/ONT/SNA, NYC/EWR, and
OAK/SFO/SJC.
Contractor - Any person who has entered into a contract with a carrier for the purchase of seats for
resale to the general public.
Days - Full calendar days, including Sun/legal holidays, provided that, for the purposes of
notification, the balance of the days upon which notice is dispatched shall not be counted, and that,
for purposes of determining duration of validity, the balance of the day upon which the ticket is
issued or flight began shall not be counted.
Dependent - Unless otherwise indicated, dependent means spouse and children of military
personnel/U.S. embassy personnel stationed overseas wholly dependent upon such personnel for
their livelihood.
Dot Hazardous Materials Regulations means the hazardous materials regulations issued by the
Materials Transportation Bureau of the Department of Transportation in Title 49 of the Code of
Federal Regulations, Parts 171 through 177 (49 CFR 171-177).
Economy means the class of service listed in carrier's official general schedule as economy flights.
Europe: Means that area comprised of Albania; Algeria; Andorra; Armenia; Austria; Azores;
Azerbaijan; Belarus; Belgium; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Bulgaria; Canary Islands; Croatia; Cyprus;
Czech Republic; Denmark; Estonia; Finland; France; Germany; Georgia; Gibraltar; Greece;
Hungary; Iceland; Ireland; Italy; Latvia; Liechtenstein; Lithuania; Luxembourg; Macedonia; Madeira;
Malta: Moldova; Monaco; Morocco; Netherlands; Norway; Poland; Portugal; Romania; Russian
Federation (west of the Urals); San Marino; Serbia and Montenegro; Slovakia; Slovenia; Spain;
Sweden; Switzerland; Tunisia; Turkey (in Europe and Asia); Ukraine; United Kingdom.
Extraterritorial Trip means any trip which includes transportation 1) via one or more carriers within
the area consisting of the continental United States and Canada, and 2) via commercial air (not
including charter services) or military air services to or from any point outside such area.
 Fares Tariff – Local passenger fares and rules tariff no. EF-2, C.A.B. no. 409, NTA(A) no. 233,
 issued by Airline Tariff Publishing Company, agent and reissues or supplements thereof.
 Flight Coupon - A portion of the passenger's ticket that indicates particular cities between which
 the coupon is good for carriage.
Full Adult Fare means the one-way fares designated by fare class code Y (Coach) whether
specifically published or derived by construction.
Gateway - The passenger's first point of arrival or last departure in areas 1, 2, or 3.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 6 of 63
General Standby Passenger - Passenger who will be enplaned on a flight subject to the availability
of space at departure time and only after all passengers having reservations for such flight and all
passengers without reservations but paying fares other than adult standby fares have been
enplaned on such flight. Not all flights will be available for standby. All specific standby rules are
governed by tariff rule 141.
Government Transport Request (GTR) - Form used by the U.S. for ticket payment and travel
authorization for passengers traveling on official business for the federal government
Group - Minimum number of passengers specified in conjunction with the fare as provided for in the
applicable fare rules. Less than the minimum number of passengers may not travel at group fares,
even upon payment of the minimum number of fares, unless specifically permitted in a given fare
rule.
Group Organizer - Any person engaged in organizing groups and/or responsible for the travel
arrangements of the group under the terms and conditions of the applicable rule in this tariff, except
that an air carrier shall not act as a group organizer.
GTR - (See Government Transport Request)
IATA - (See International Air Transport Association)
Immediate Family - Spouse, domestic partner, children, step-children, grandchildren, parents, stepparents, grandparents, brothers, step-brothers, sisters, step-sisters, daughters-in-law, sons-in-law,
fathers-in-law, mothers-in-law, aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews, brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law.
Inclusive Tour - Officially published tour in which land arrangements are offered at a flat rate.
 Land arrangements include hotels or other sleeping accommodations, airport transfers, and at
 least one other tour feature such as car rental, sightseeing motor coach trips, or other tourist
 services. Such official inclusive tours must contain an IT number (the code designated on an
 inclusive tour folder) that indicates that the tour has been approved by the ATC/IATA.
Inclusive Tour Fare - Round/circle/open-jaw trip fares offered in conjunction with the purchase of a
minimum land package which must be officially designated as an inclusive tour by the ATC/IATA.
Interchange Flight means a flight operated over the routes of two or more carriers without change
of equipment.
Interlining - Utilizing the services of more than one carrier in connection with a particular fare.
International Air Transport Association (IATA) - The world trade association of airlines which operate
international services.
International Transportation means any transportation or other services, furnished by any carrier,
which are included within the scope of the term "international transportation" as used in the
Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to International Transportation by Air signed
at Warsaw, October 12, 1929, or such convention as amended, whichever may be applicable to the
transportation hereunder and to which the said Convention applies. For the purpose of determining
the applicability of the term "international transportation":

Agreed Stopping Place All stops between the original place of departure and the place of
final destination scheduled by any carrier by air which participates in the transportation
between such places, as shown in the schedules or time tables of such carriers. Each
participating carrier reserves the right to alter the "agreed stopping places" in the case of
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 7 of 63
necessity without thereby depriving the transportation of its international character;
and
Single Operation Transportation to be performed by several successive carriers by air,
arrangements for which are made in advance. It shall be deemed to be "one undivided
transportation" whether one or more tickets or other documents are issued to cover such
transportation, and whether or not all such tickets or documents are issued prior to the
commencement of such transportation but this provision shall not be deemed to contain an
exclusive definition of transportation which is regarded by the parties as "a single
operation".
 Jet Aircraft means the following aircraft (and all series thereof):
777 - Boeing 777
76S - Boeing 767-300
767 - Boeing 767-200
757 - Boeing 757
733 - Boeing 737-300
73S - Boeing 737-200
M80 - McDonnell Douglas MD-88
D9S - McDonnell Douglas DC-9-32
Maximum Outside Linear Dimensions means the sum of the greatest outside length plus the
greatest outside width plus the greatest outside height.
Micronesia - The area comprised of the Caroline Islands, Guam, Johnston Island, Mariana I
slands, Marshall Islands, Paulau Islands, Ponape, Seipan, Trak and Yap.
Military Agencies means departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force, the Marine Corps, the Coast
Guard, the respective academies of the Army, Navy, Air Force and Coast Guard, and the National
Guard. The Reserve Officer Training Corps is not included.
 Military Passenger means military personnel of the U.S. military agencies who are on active duty
 status or who have been discharged from active military service within seven days of the date of
 travel.
Military Recruit Passenger - A member of one of the U.S. military agencies traveling from
recruiting/induction station to first training installation or from first training installation to first duty
 assignment.
Miscellaneous Charges Order means a document issued by a carrier or its agents requesting issue
of an appropriate passenger ticket and baggage check or provision of services to the person named
in such document.
North America means that area comprised of the Caribbean area, Canada, Mexico, and the United
States, excluding the Canal Zone.
 Off-Peak Coach means the service of flights listed in the carrier's official general schedules as
 off-peak coach.
Open-Jaw Trip means any trip which is essentially a round-trip or circle-trip but the outward point
of departure and the inward point of arrival or the outward point of arrival and inward point of
departure are not the same.
 Example of open-jaw trip:
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 8 of 63
 LAX to ATL to PDX
Outward Destination - The stopover point on the passenger's itinerary which is furthest from the
 passenger's point of origin.
Person with a Disability means any person who has a physical or mental impairment that, on a
permanent or temporary basis, substantially limits one or more major life activities, has a record of
such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an impairment. This term shall be further
defined as required by applicable law, including 14 C.F.R. 382.3.
Personal Attendant means the travel companion of a person with a disability that is attending to the
personal needs of the passenger with a disability.
 Portion - The space between two consecutive scheduled stops on any given flight. Also referred
 to as a leg.
 Pre-Enlistee - Person traveling between his/her home and an armed forces examining and
 entrance station/recruiting main station at direction station/selective service local board.
 Pre-Inductee - Person traveling between his/her home and an armed forces examining and
 entrance station/recruiting main station at the direction of a recruiting station/selective service
 local board.
 Prepaid Ticket Advice means the notification between offices of a carrier or between carriers that
 a person in one location has purchased and requested issuance of prepaid transportation as
 described in the authority to another person in another location.
 Propeller Aircraft means the following aircraft (and all series thereof):
DH7: Dehavilland DHC7 Dash-7
SF3: Saab/Fairchild 340
SH6: Short Brothers 360
EM2: Embraer EMB 120 Brasilia
EMB: Embraer EMB 110 Bandeirante
SWM: Fairchild Metro
BE1: Beechcraft 1900
Rebooking means change in date/time of reservation or other change not requiring ticket
reissuance.
Reissue means any change to a validated ticket requiring a replacement ticket be issued,
including but not limited to the following: upgrade, downgrade, additional coupons, increase in
fare.
Revalidation means any change in reservations of flight(s) which can be made on the ticket with a
revalidation sticker/stamp evidencing that it has been officially altered.
Reroute means to issue a new ticket covering transportation to the same destination but via a
 different routing than that designated on the ticket, or portion thereof, then held by the
 passenger, or to honor the ticket, or portion thereof, then held by the passenger for transportation
 to the same destination but via a different routing than that designated thereon.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 9 of 63
Round Trip means any trip which has the ultimate destination of the point of origin, and which is
made via the same routing in both directions. Reservations for all segments of a trip for tickets
issued at round-trip fares must be confirmed in the same (a single) passenger name record (PNR)
 Example of round trips:
 Example of local round trip:
 Point 1 to Point 2 on airline A
 Point 2 to Point 1 on airline A
 Example of joint round trip:
 Point 1 to Point 2 on airline A
 Point 2 to Point 3 on airline B
 Point 3 to Point 2 on airline B
 Point 2 to Point 1 on airline A
Routing means the carrier(s) and/or the cities and/or class of service and/or type of aircraft (jet or
propeller) via which transportation is provided between two points, as specified in any tariff
governed by this tariff.
Safety Assistant means a person required by Delta to travel with a person with a disability, pursuant
to Rule 33 C): to attend to the person with a disability’s in-flight medical needs; to assist the person
with a disability’s communication with crewmembers; or to assist the person with a disability’s
evacuation from the aircraft in the event of an emergency.
Sector - The portion of travel between two fare break points as determined in the fare
construction. Sectors are made up of one or more segments.
Segment - That part of a journey from a passenger's boarding point to any deplaning point. Each
flight coupon represents a segment of a trip.
Self-reliant means that a person does not require services related to a disability beyond that
normally provided by the carrier or beyond that which applicable law requires the carrier to provide.
South America means Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana,
Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Surinam, Uruguay, and Venezuela.
Southwest Pacific - The area comprised of Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji Islands, French Polynesia,
Gilbert and Ellice Islands, Loyalty Islands, New Caledonia, New Hebrides, New Zealand, Norfolk
Islands, Papua, New Guinea, Samoa, Society Islands, Solomon Islands, Tonga, and Intermediate
Islands.
Stopover – A deliberate interruption of a journey by the passenger, agreed to in advance by the
carrier, at a point between the place of departure and the place of destination.
Tour Conductor - Person at least 18 years of age who is in charge of and guides a group for the
duration of a tour.
Transit Point - Any stop at an intermediate point on the route to be traveled (whether or not a
change of planes is made) which does not fall within the definition of a stopover.
United States or United States of America means the 50 federated states and the District of
Columbia.
U.S. Armed Forces/U.S. Military Agencies - Department of the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps,
and Coast Guard of the United States of America, the respective academies of the Army, Navy, Air
Force, and Coast Guard. Does not include the National Guard Bureau or the Reserve Officer
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 10 of 63
Training Corps or members of the reserves not holding a valid duty Armed Forces of the United
States green identification card.
United States Department of Defense means the U.S. Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air
Force and the U.S. Marine Corps.
U.S. Military Personnel - Unless otherwise indicated, refers only to active duty military personnel,
and means:
(1) Military personnel of the United States military agencies holding a valid active duty
Armed Forces of the United States green identification card, on active duty status and
traveling on authorized furlough, leave, or pass.
(2) Does not include personnel on temporary duty orders traveling to or from their
temporary duty station.
Validation means the authorized stamping or writing upon the passenger ticket evidencing that it
has been officially issued by the carrier or its authorized agent.
Voluntary Standby-Paid Upgrade - Passengers must be confirmed in the coach cabin on the
same flight and date for which the upgrade request is made. The paid standby upgrade may not
be offered on all flights. A non-refundable standby upgrade fee may be assessed and will be
collected on each flight segment based on mileage and fare class. All specific standby rules are
governed by tariff rule 141.
Waitlist - List established by an airline of passengers who are either seeking space on a flight that
is sold out, or traveling on a standby basis/standby fare that does not permit boarding a particular
flight until all passengers with confirmed reservations have been boarded.
Western Hemisphere means the United States of America, Canada, Greenland, Mexico, Central
and South America, Bermuda, Bahamas and the islands of the Caribbean Sea.
RULE 10: PASSPORTS AND VISAS
A) Each passenger desiring transportation across any international boundary shall be
responsible for obtaining all necessary travel documents and for complying with the laws of
each country from, through, or to which he/she desires transportation and, unless
applicable laws provide otherwise, shall indemnify each carrier for any loss, damage or
expense suffered or incurred by such carrier by reason of such passenger’s failure to do so.
No carrier shall be liable for any aid or information given by an agent or employee of such
carrier to any passenger in connection with obtaining such documents or complying with such
laws, whether given orally, in writing, or otherwise or for the consequences to any passenger
resulting from his/her failure to obtain such documents or to comply with such laws.
B) Subject to applicable laws and regulations, the passenger shall pay the applicable fare
whenever the carrier, on government order, is required to return a passenger to his/her point of
origin or elsewhere due to the passenger’s inadmissibility into or deportation from a country,
whether of transit or of destination. The fare applicable will be the fare that would have been
applicable had the original ticket designated the revised destination on the new ticket. Any
difference
between the fare so applicable and the fare paid by the passenger will be collected from or
refunded to the passenger as the case may be. The carrier will apply to the payment of such
fares, any funds paid by the passenger to the carrier for unused carriage or any funds of the
passenger in possession of the carrier. The fare collected for carriage to the point of refusal
or deportation will not be refunded by the carrier unless the law of such country requires that
such fare be refunded.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 11 of 63
RULE 20: CAPACITY LIMITATIONS
The carrier shall limit the number of passengers carried on any one flight at fares governed by
rules or fares making reference hereto and such fares will not necessarily be available on all
flights or in all markets. The number of seats which the carrier shall make available on a given
flight will be determined by the carrier's best judgment as to the anticipated total passenger load
on each flight.
RULE 25: PERSONAL DATA
The passenger recognizes that personal data has been given to carrier for the purposes of
making a reservation for carriage, obtaining ancillary services, facilitating immigration and entry
requirements, and making available such data to government agencies. For these purposes, the
passenger authorizes carrier to retain such data and to transmit it to its own offices, other
carriers, or the providers of such services, in whatever country they may be located.
RULE 33: CARRIAGE OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
A) Acceptance for Carriage
Delta will make every effort to accommodate a person with a disability and will not refuse to transport a
person solely based on the person’s disability, except as permitted or required by law.
B) Acceptance of Declaration of Self-Reliance
 Unless Delta determines a Safety Assistant is essential for safety, pursuant to Rule 33 C), Delta will
 accept the determination made by or on behalf of a person with a disability as to self-reliance. Once
 advised that the person is “self-reliant”, Delta shall not refuse such passenger transportation on the
 basis that the person with a disability is not accompanied by a Personal Attendant or based on the
 assumption that the passenger may require extraordinary assistance from airline employees in
 meeting the passenger’s needs.
C) Accompanying Safety Assistant Required for Certain Passengers
 Delta may require that a Safety Assistant accompany a person with a disability as a condition of
 providing transportation if Delta determines that such an assistant is essential for safety, such as in,
 but not limited to, the following circumstances:
1) A passenger is unable to comprehend or respond appropriately to safety related instructions
due to a mental disability;
2) A passenger is unable to physically assist in the passenger’s own evacuation from the
aircraft due to a severe mobility impairment; or
3) A passenger is unable to establish a means of communication with Delta personnel sufficient
to receive the safety briefing due to having both severe hearing and vision impairments.
D) Medical Clearance
 Delta will not require a medical clearance for a person with a disability as a condition of travel, except
 as permitted by law. Delta may require a medical certificate when, in good faith and using its
 reasonable discretion, Delta determines there is reasonable doubt that a passenger can complete
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 12 of 63
 the flight safely without requiring extraordinary medical assistance.
E) Seating Restrictions and Assignments
 When a person identifies the nature of his or her disability, Delta will, to the extent possible,
 accommodate the passenger with a seat assignment that suits the passenger’s needs, including
 seating the passenger together with any Safety Attendant or Personal Attendant traveling with the
 passenger. Passengers with a disability will not be prohibited from occupying seats in designated
 emergency exit rows, except to the extent required by law.
F) Acceptance of Aids
 In addition to the regular baggage allowance, Delta will accept, without charge, as priority checked
 baggage, mobility aids, including but not limited to:
1) an electric wheelchair, a scooter or a manually operated rigid-frame wheelchair;
2) a manually operated, folding wheelchair;
3) a walker, a cane, crutches or braces;
4) any device that assists the person to communicate; and
5) any prosthesis or medical device.

 Where space permits, Delta will, without charge, permit the passenger to store a manually operated,

 folding wheelchair and other small mobility aids in the passenger cabin during the flight. The
 assembling and disassembling of mobility aids will be provided by Delta, without charge.
 Wheelchairs and mobility aids will be the last items to be stowed in the aircraft hold and the first
 items to be removed.
G) Manually Operated Wheelchair Access
 To the extent permitted by space and facilities, Delta will permit a passenger using a manually
 operated wheelchair to remain in the wheelchair:
1) until the passenger reaches the boarding gate;
2) while the passenger is moving between the terminal and the aircraft door; and
3) while the passenger is moving between the terminal and the aircraft.
H) Service Animals
 Delta will accept for transportation, without charge, a service animal required to assist a Person
with a Disability. Service Animals are defined as only dogs, regardless of breed, specifically trained to
assist a Person with a Disability. To the extent possible, Delta will assign a seat to the person that
provides sufficient space for the person and the service animal. Delta will permit the service animal to
accompany the person onboard the aircraft and to remain on the floor at the person’s seat. The service
animal will not be permitted to occupy a passenger seat. To the extent permitted or required by law,
Delta reserves the right to deny transportation to any service animal when reasonably necessary, in
Delta’s sole discretion, for the comfort or safety of passengers or crewmembers or for the prevention of
damage to the property of Delta or its passengers or employees.
I) Services to be Provided to Persons with Disabilities
 Upon request, Delta will provide the following services to a person with a disability:
1) assistance with registration at the check-in counter;
2) assistance in proceeding to the boarding area;
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 13 of 63
3) assistance in boarding and deplaning;
4) assistance in stowing and retrieving carry-on baggage and retrieving checked baggage;
5) assistance in moving to and from an aircraft lavatory;
6) assistance in proceeding to the general public area or, in some cases, to a representative of
another carrier;
7) transfer between the person’s own mobility aid and a mobility aid provided by Delta;
8) transfer between a mobility aid and the passenger’s seat;
9) limited assistance with meals, such as opening packages, identifying items, and cutting large
food portions;
10) inquiring periodically during a flight about a passenger’s needs; and
11) briefing individual passengers with disabilities and any attendant on emergency procedures
and the layout of the cabin.
J) Advance Notice for Special Services
 To the extent permitted by law, Delta may require advance notice for certain special services desired
 by a person with a disability. Services applicable under this rule include but are not limited to:
1) transportation of an electric wheelchair on an aircraft of less than 60;
2) provision of hazardous materials packaging for batteries or other assistive device that are
required to have such packaging;
3) accommodation for a group of 10 or more passengers with disabilities traveling as a group;
4) provision of an onboard wheelchair on an aircraft of 60 seats or more;
5) transportation of a Service animal in the cabin (unless the ticket is purchased less than 48 hours
prior to departure);
6) transportation of a Service Animal on a Segment scheduled to take 8 or more hours; or
7) accommodation of a passenger with both severe vision and hearing impairments.
 Such requests should be made by the passenger at the time of reservation and as far in advance as
 possible. If a passenger requests a special service at least 48 hours prior to departure, Delta will, to
 the extent possible, provide the service. If a passenger requests a service less than 48 hours prior to
 departure, Delta will make a reasonable effort to provide the service.
K) Boarding and Deplaning
 Where a person with a disability requests assistance in boarding or seating or in stowing carry-on
 baggage, Delta will allow the passenger to board the aircraft in advance of other passengers where
 time permits.
L) Communication and Confirmation of Information
 Delta will insure that announcements to passengers concerning stops, delays, schedule changes,
 connections, on-board services, and claiming baggage are communicated to any person with a
 disability in a manner sufficient for the person to understand the communication.
M) Inquire Periodically
 When passengers in wheelchairs that are not independently mobile are waiting to board an aircraft,
 Delta will inquire periodically about their needs and shall attend to those needs where the services
 required are usually provided by Delta.
RULE 35: REFUSAL TO TRANSPORT
Delta may refuse to transport any passenger, and may remove any passenger from its aircraft
at any time, for any of the following reasons:
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 14 of 63
A) Government Request or Regulations
Whenever such action is necessary to comply with any government regulations, directives, or
instructions; or to comply with any governmental request for emergency transportation in
connection with the national defense, or whenever such action is necessary or advisable by
reason of weather or other conditions beyond its control (including but without limitation, acts of
God, force majeure, strikes, civil commotions, embargoes, wars, hostilities, or disturbances)
actual, threatened, or reported.
B) Search of Passenger or Property
When a passenger refuses to permit search of his person or property for explosives, weapons,
dangerous materials, or other prohibited items.
C) Proof of Identity
When a passenger refuses on request to produce positive identification; provided, however, that
Delta shall have no obligation to require positive identification of persons purchasing tickets
and/or presenting tickets for the purpose of boarding aircraft.
D) Travel Across International Boundaries
When a passenger is traveling across any international boundary if:
1) the travel documents of such passenger are not in order; or
2) such transportation would be unlawful
E) Failure to Comply with Delta’s Rules or Contract of Carriage
When a passenger fails or refuses to comply with any of Delta’s rules or regulations or any term
of the contract of carriage.
F) Passenger’s Conduct or Condition
Delta will not refuse to provide transportation to a passenger with a disability, as defined in 14
C.F.R. § 382.5 and 382.31, based upon the passenger’s disability, except as as allowed or
required by law. Delta will not refuse to provide transportation based upon race, color, national
origin, religion, sex, or ancestry. Subject to those qualifications, Delta may refuse to transport
any passenger, or may remove any passenger from its aircraft, when refusal to transport or
removal of the passenger is reasonably necessary in Delta’s sole discretion for the passenger’s
comfort or safety, for the comfort or safety of other passengers or Delta employees, or for the
prevention of damage to the property of Delta or its passengers or employees. By way of
example, and without limitation, Delta may refuse to transport or may remove passengers from
its aircraft in any of the following situations:
1) When the passenger’s conduct is disorderly, abusive or violent;
2) When the passenger is barefoot;
3) When the passenger appears to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs;
4) When the passenger attempts to interfere with any member of the flight crew in the pursuit of
his or her duties, or fails to obey the instruction of any member of the flight crew;
5) When the passenger has a contagious disease that may be transmissible to other passengers
during the normal course of the flight;
6) When the passenger has a malodorous condition;
7) When the passenger is unable to sit in a seat with the seatbelt fastened;
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 15 of 63
8) When the passenger’s behavior may be hazardous to himself/herself, the crew, or other
passengers;
9) When the passenger is seriously ill, and fails to provide a physician's written permission to fly.
10) When the passenger’s conduct creates an unreasonable risk of offense or annoyance to
other passengers;
11) When the passenger’s conduct creates a risk of harm or damage to the carrier’s aircraft
and/or property, or the property of other passengers.
G) Recourse of Passenger
All passengers are prohibited from engaging in any conduct that would authorize Delta to
refuse transport under this Rule. The sole recourse of any passenger refused carriage or
removed en route for any reason specified in this Rule shall be recovery of the refund value
of the unused portion of his or her ticket as provided in Rule 260.
RULE 40: ELECTRONIC SURVEILLANCE
Passengers and their baggage are subject to inspection with an electronic detector with or
without the passenger's consent or knowledge.
RULE 50: ACCEPTANCE OF CHILDREN
A) Accompanied Children
1) General Rule
Except as set forth in this rule, children under the age of 15 will not be accepted for
transportation unless they are accompanied on the same flight in the same compartment by
a parent, legal guardian, or other passenger at least 18 years of age. Delta may prompt at
check in for documentation verifying the child’s age. A valid passport, birth certificate or
other government issued identification are all acceptable.
2) Accompanied Children Less Than 2 Years Old.
One child less than 2 years old not occupying a seat may travel with an adult fare-paying
passenger at least 18 years old or parent/legal guardian at no additional charge. Additional
infants and infants occupying a seat must pay the applicable fare. A maximum of 2 infants is
permitted for each adult. Delta recommends that any child occupying a seat be placed in an
approved safety seat. Infants who will reach their second birthday during a journey will be
required to occupy a seat, paying the lowest applicable fare for the entire journey.
(3) Accompanied Children 2 Years and Older.
The fare for children ages 2 years and older, will be the same as the fare for an adult
passenger traveling in the same class of service.
B) Unaccompanied Children Under the age of 15.
Children under the age of 15 may travel unaccompanied on Delta only under the following
conditions:
(1) Children under the age of 5
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 16 of 63
No child under the age of 5 will be accepted for unaccompanied travel.
(2) Children aged 5 through 14
Children ages 5 through 7 may travel unaccompanied on non-stop flights only and
may not connect to other airlines. Children ages 8 through 14 may travel
unaccompanied on Delta’s non-stop or connecting flights, but may not connect to
other airlines with the exception of Delta Connection, KLM, and Air France.
C) Unaccompanied Minor Service
(1) When Unaccompanied Minor Service is Required
Except as otherwise provided in this rule, Unaccompanied Minor Service is required for all
passengers under the age of 15 that Delta accepts for transportation.
(2) Unaccompanied Minor Service Defined
Unaccompanied Minor Service means that Delta will provide supervision for the child from
the time of boarding until the child is met at the stopover point or destination. Delta will
assume no financial or guardianship responsibilities for unaccompanied children beyond
those applicable to an adult passenger. Delta has the right, but is not obligated, to require
identification of the responsible party meeting the child at a transfer point or final
destination. An unaccompanied minor must be confirmed to destination and may not be
confirmed on the last connecting flight of the evening (with the exception of markets where
there is only one connection and it is the last flight of the day), nor may an unaccompanied
minor travel on a flight expected to terminate short of, or bypass, the child’s destination.
Delta may rebook the child on an alternate flight if there is a possibility that weather,
irregular operations, or other conditions may cause a flight to be diverted. Delta requires
that a parent or responsible adult accompany the child until boarding, and this adult must
provide the name, telephone number, and address of the party meeting the child at the
transfer point or final destination. Delta reserves the right to refuse to release an
unaccompanied child to anyone other than the pre-designated party. Delta representatives
cannot administer medicine to children flying alone. An unaccompanied minor may not
travel on any domestic flight greater than 2 hours in length which departs between 9 PM
and 5 AM (“red-eye flight”). This restriction does not apply for red-eye flights to/from Hawaii
and Alaska, however, an unaccompanied minor on a red-eye flight from Hawaii or Alaska
may not connect to a domestic red-eye flight or to the last flight of the day.
D) Unaccompanied Children Ages 15-17
Although not required, a parent or guardian may request Unaccompanied Minor Service for
unaccompanied minors ages 15-17. The applicable unaccompanied minor service charge
will apply.
E) Unaccompanied Minor Service Charge
In addition to the applicable fare, unaccompanied minors for whom Unaccompanied Minor
Service is required or has been requested must pay an unaccompanied minor service
charge in the amounts set forth below. Delta reserves the right to refuse to transport any
unaccompanied minor for whom Unaccompanied Minor Services are required or requested
but for whom the applicable unaccompanied minor service fee has not been paid. If 2 or
more unaccompanied minors who are members of the same immediate family and ticketed
together are traveling together, only one service charge will be assessed.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 17 of 63
The unaccompanied minor service charge will be USD150.00/CAD150.00 each way for
non-stop travel and USD150.00/CAD150.00 each way for connecting travel.
F) Proof of Permission to Travel
Minors at least (12) years of age but under (18) years of age traveling unaccompanied by
their parents or guardians, although paying the adult fare, will be required to satisfy the
office or agency booking such passage of the fact that their parents or guardians are aware
of their intent to travel and have given their permission for such travel and to leave their
country of origin if the travel being undertaken so requires. If time permits prior to departure,
a statement in writing to that effect will be required from parents or guardian and if the travel
is international, the statement must also say that the minor(s) will be visiting and in the
charge of responsible person(s) while in the country of destination. If reservation has been
made so near departure time that written statement is not obtainable, then oral assurance
will be required.
RULE 55: SPECIALLY TRAINED SERVICE DOGS
Delta accepts for transportation, without charge, dogs trained: (1) to lead individuals who are
blind, when the dog accompanies a passenger with a visual related disability using a service
dog to managing a disability; (2) to assist individuals who are Deaf or Hard of Hearing, when the
dog accompanies a passenger who is Deaf or Hard of Hearing using a service dog to manage a
disability; (3) to assist a person with physical or psychiatric related disabilities where the service
dog assists the person in manage their disability, or (4) in explosive detection or search and
rescue, only such dogs are accompanied by U.S. military and U.S. government handlers. In the
cases of (1) and (2) above, Delta will also accept such dogs when accompanied by the dog’s
trainer and is en-route to the domicile of the owner for completion of training. In all cases, the
service dog will be permitted to accompany such passenger into the cabin but will not be
permitted to occupy a seat.
RULE 85: SMOKE FREE SERVICE
 Delta prohibits smoking and the use of all smokeless tobacco products on all flights.
RULE 90: PASSENGER MEDICAL OXYGEN
A) Portable Oxygen Concentrators
On flights operated by Delta or Delta Connection carriers, passengers may use Portable
Oxygen Concentrators (POCs) that have been approved for use by Delta upon meeting the
requirements listed below. The current list of approved POC devices is available on
delta.com or may be obtained by calling Delta Reservations.
1) Advance Notice Required
Passengers must provide written notice of their plans to use a POC to Delta or its designee
at least 48 hours prior to the scheduled departure time of the first flight in their itinerary.
2) Medical Screening

 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 18 of 63
Delta requires that passengers who wish to use a POC on a Delta flight receive medical
screening prior to their flight. This service is provided by Delta at no cost to the passenger. If
the passenger makes any voluntary change to his/her itinerary after completion of the
medical screening and the change results in a longer flight time than the original itinerary,
re-screening will be required.
3) Medical Certificate Required
All passengers using a POC on a Delta flight must possess a written statement or a medical
certificate indicating:
a. A signature by a licensed physician certifying the need for in-flight
 oxygen.
b. The passenger is able to fly without physical risk to herself/himself or
 to other passengers.
c. The amount of oxygen required per hour and the maximum flow rate
 in liters per minute required at 8000 ft. altitude.
B) Seating Restrictions
Passengers using POCs on a Delta flight must be seated in a row other than an emergency
exit or bulkhead.

RULE 95: CLAIMS
Overcharges
No claims for overcharge shall be valid and DL shall have no liability if claim is more than one
(1) year after the date of issue of the ticket.
RULE 100: TICKETS
A) No person shall be entitled to transportation except upon presentation of a valid ticket. Such
ticket shall entitle the passenger to transportation only between points of origin and destination
and via the routing designated thereon.
B) Flight coupons will be honored only in the order in which they are issued, and only if all unused
flight coupons and passenger coupons are presented together.
C) Compliance with Terms and Conditions of Sale
Tickets are valid for travel only when used in accordance with all terms and conditions of
sale. Terms and conditions of sale include but are not limited to:
A) The passenger's itinerary, as stated on the ticket or in the passenger's reservation
record;
B) Any requirement that the passenger stay over a specified date or length of time
(for example, Sat. night or weekend) at the destination specified on the ticket;
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 19 of 63
C) Any special purpose or status (for example, age in the case of senior citizen or
children's discount, military status in the case of a military fare, official government
business in the case of a government fare, or attendance at a qualified event in the
case of a meeting or convention fare) that entitles the passenger to a special reduced
rate;
D) Any other requirement associated with the passenger's fare level.
2) Unless a ticket is reissued by Delta or its authorized agent upon payment of applicable
charges, or an authorized representative of Delta waives applicable restrictions in writing, a
ticket is invalid;
A) If used for travel to a destination other than that specified on the ticket;
B) If the passenger fails to comply with applicable stayover requirements;
C) If the passenger does not meet the purpose or status requirement associated with the
fare category on the ticket;
D) If Delta determines that the ticket has been purchased or used in a manner designed to
circumvent applicable fare rules.
3) Delta specifically prohibits the practices commonly known as:
A) Back to Back Ticketing - The issuance, purchase or usage of flight coupons from two or
more tickets issued at round trip fares, or the combination of two or more round trip
fares end to end on the same ticket for the purpose of circumventing minimum stay
requirements.
B) Throwaway Ticketing - The issuance, purchase, or usage of round trip fares for one way
travel.
C) Hidden City/Point Beyond Ticketing - The issuance, purchase, or usage of a fare from a
point before the passenger's actual origin or to a point beyond the
passenger's actual destination.
4) Where a ticket is invalidated as the result of the passenger's non-compliance with
any term or condition of sale, Delta has the right in its sole discretion to:
A) Cancel any remaining portion of the passenger's itinerary;
B) Confiscate unused flight coupons;
C) Refuse to board the passenger or check the passenger's baggage; or
D) Assess the passenger for the reasonable remaining value of the ticket, which shall be
no less than the difference between the fare actually paid and the lowest fare applicable
to the passenger's actual itinerary.
D) A ticket which has not been validated, or which has been altered, mutilated or improperly
issued, shall not be valid.
E) Tickets are not transferable, but the carrier is not liable to the owner of a ticket for honoring or
refunding such ticket when presented by another person.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 20 of 63
F) Tickets may be purchased on credit, installment, or time payment plans lawfully in effect.
EXCEPTION: Notwithstanding the terms of any agreement or understanding, in the event of a
strike or work stoppage which causes any cancellation or suspension of operations, Delta will
not accept as payment UATP credit cards issued by such struck carrier.
G) The purchaser of a Delta ticket and the passenger intending to use such ticket are responsible
for ensuring that the ticket accurately states the passenger's name.
Presentation of a ticket for transportation on Delta by someone other than the passenger named
thereon renders the ticket void. Such ticket will be subject to confiscation and will be ineligible
for any refund.
H) An electronic ticket (E-Ticket/ET) is the record of agreement maintained and processed within
the carrier’s electronic reservation system. A written receipt is provided to the purchaser of the
electronic ticket which contains a reference for retrieving the record within the carrier’s
reservation system and summary of the ticket information.
I) The carrier may mandate the issuance of an electronic ticket (ET) regardless of market, carrier,
form of payment, or customer type (including SkyMiles and participating carrier frequent flyer
members).
J) Delta, or its authorized agent, will assess a USD 50.00/CAD 50.00 nonrefundable service
charge when a passenger voluntarily requests the conversion of an electronic ticket (ET) to
paper.
K) External Reissue Charge
Except as set forth in this rule, Delta will collect a nonrefundable fee of USD $50.00/CAD 52.00
for reissue by Delta of tickets originally issued in the United States or Canada by any ticketing
source other than Delta. This fee applies to all changes to tickets issued at the request of the
passenger. The charge does not apply to same day confirmed transactions, IROP or schedule
change situations, SkyMiles upgrade reissues, tickets reissued on delta.com, or tickets issued
at military or government fares.
L) Basic Economy fares are not changeable or refundable but may be voluntarily cancelled by the
passenger at any time prior to departure, subject to a cancellation charge of CAD 99.00. The
cancellation charge will be deducted from the ticket value, and the remaining ticket value may
be used by the customer to purchase a new ticket from delta in his or her name, subject to
compliance with the fare rules, ticket expiration and other restrictions.
RULE 105: TICKET VALIDITY
A) Period of Validity –
A ticket is valid for one year from the date of issue and all travel must be completed within
the validity period. If exchanged, whether travel has commenced or not, the ticket must be
reissued and all travel completed within one year from the original date of issue.
Note – certain fares may have different periods of validity, in which case the specific rules
associated with the fare will take precedence.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 21 of 63
B) Extension of Validity
If the passenger is prevented from using the ticket, or a portion of the ticket, during the period of
validity specified in paragraph a) above due to lack of space or flight cancellation, the ticket will
remain valid until space can be provided on a schedule comparable to the schedule that the
passenger has requested.
RULE 110: ISSUANCE OF TICKET STOCK
A) The carrier will issue to a person, a stock of tickets and validating stamp for the purpose of
issuing tickets for transportation, subject to 1) reasonable credit requirements and 2) entering
into a written agreement authorizing the issuance of tickets and providing for accounting,
reservation and ticketing procedures and provisions protecting them and the carrier from loss or
misuse of the tickets.
B) The carrier will arrange for the issuance of a ticketing machine to a person for the purpose of
issuing tickets for transportation, subject to 1) reasonable credit requirements and 2) entering
into a written agreement authorizing the issuance of tickets and providing for accounting,
reservation and ticketing procedures and provisions protecting them and the carrier from loss or
misuse of the tickets. The carrier will make no charge for the ticket machine or related
communication services. The ticketing machine and related communication services will be
provided by an independent company, which is not an agent or servant of the carrier, and at the
person's expense.
 NOTE: For the purpose of the above paragraphs, "person" means an individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company, association, joint-stock association, or body politic and
includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or similar representative thereof.
RULE 115: CONFIRMATION OF RESERVATIONS
A) Validity of Confirmed Reservations
No reservation on Delta is valid until the availability and allocation of the reserved space is
confirmed by Delta or its agent and entered in Delta’s electronic reservations system. Unless an
earlier ticketing deadline is imposed by the applicable fare rule or other agreement between Delta
and the passenger, Delta must receive payment and the reservation must be ticketed at least 30
minutes prior to the scheduled flight departure time. Failure to comply with this ticketing deadline or
an earlier ticketing deadline imposed by the applicable fare rule or other agreement with the
passenger will result in cancellation of the reservation without notice.
B) Earlier Ticketing Required at Some Airports
1) Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport – Atlanta (ATL), Denver International Airport
(DEN), Las Vegas International Airport (LAS), Orlando International Airport (MCO), John F.
Kennedy International Airport (JFK), and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)
For passengers traveling from Hartsfield-Jackson International Airport – Atlanta (ATL), Denver
International Airport (DEN), Las Vegas International Airport (LAS), Orlando International Airport
(MCO), John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK), and Los Angeles International Airport (LAX)
passengers must purchase their ticket at least 45 minutes prior to the scheduled flight departure
time of the flight to which such reservation applies or the baggage may be refused and the
reservation cancelled.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 22 of 63
2) San Juan Luis Munoz Marin International Airport (SJU) or St. Thomas Cyril E. King Airport
(STT)
For passengers traveling from San Juan Luis Munoz Marin International Airport (SJU) or St. Thomas Cyril
E. King Airport (STT), passengers must purchase their tickets at least 60 minutes prior to the scheduled
departure time of the flight to which such reservation applies or the reservation may be cancelled.
C) Overbooking of Flights
Because passengers with confirmed reservations on a flight sometimes fail to show, Delta reserves
the right to sell more tickets for travel on each flight than there are seats available on the aircraft. In
some cases, this may result in an “oversold flight,” i.e., a flight in which Delta cannot accommodate
one or more passengers with confirmed reservations. In that case, Delta may deny boarding to
passengers with confirmed reservations on the flight. The rights of passengers with confirmed
reservations who are denied boarding due to the oversale of a flight are governed by Rule 245.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 23 of 63
D) Missing Reservations
Once a passenger obtains a ticket that reflects confirmed space for a specific flight and date from
Delta or an authorized Delta agent, the reservation is confirmed even if the record is missing from
Delta’s electronic reservations system, unless Delta’s records indicate that the reservation was
cancelled after the ticket was issued.
E) Fictitious Bookings
Multiple bookings of a fictitious nature are prohibited by Delta. In the event Delta determines that an
individual has confirmed such bookings to one or more destination(s) on or about the same date(s),
the carrier reserves the right to cancel all confirmed space associated with the multiple reservations
without notice to the passenger or the person making the booking.
RULE 135: CANCELLATION OF RESERVATIONS
A) Delta will cancel reservations of any passenger whenever such action is necessary to comply
with any governmental regulation, or to comply with any governmental request for emergency
transportation in connection with the national defense, or whenever such action is necessary or
advisable by reason of weather or other conditions beyond its control.
B) The Transportation Security Agency’s (TSA) Secure Flight Program requires that Delta collect
the following additional information from passengers when making a reservation to fly within,
into or out of the United States and reservations for point-to-point international flights operated
by U.S.- based airlines:
1) Full Name (required), as it appears on government-issued I.D. approved for use
when traveling
2) Date of Birth (required)
3) Gender (required)
4) Redress Number (optional)
 Delta may cancel your reservation if the reservation does not include the required Secure Flight
 Passenger Data (full name, date of birth and gender) at least 72 hours prior to your scheduled
 departure. This cancellation policy applies to all Delta tickets, including tickets for our codeshare
 partners’ flights.
C) Failure To Occupy Space
If the passenger fails to occupy space which has been reserved for him/her on a Delta flight and
Delta fails to receive notice of the cancellation of such reservation prior to the departure of such
flight, or if Delta cancels the reservation of any passenger in accordance with any provision of
this rule, Delta will cancel all reservations held by such passenger on Delta flights for continuing
or return space, provided Delta originally reserved that space.
D) Airport Check-In Time Limits
1) Reservations Subject to Cancellation for Failure to Meet Check-in and Boarding Deadlines
Reservations and seat assignments are subject to cancellation if the passenger is not at the
airport, has not completed the check-in process for his or her flight prior to the applicable
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 24 of 63
check-in deadlines, and is not at the gate and ready for boarding prior to the applicable boarding
deadlines. The check-in and boarding deadlines in effect on the date of travel will apply. Current
check-in and boarding deadlines are posted at
www.delta.com/traveling_checkin/itineraries_checkin/requirements/index.jsp. It is the
passenger’s responsibility to arrive at the airport with sufficient time to complete all ticketing,
baggage check, and security clearance procedures and to arrive at the gate ready to board by
these deadlines. The deadlines posted on Delta.com refer to the number of minutes prior to the
scheduled departure of the flight on which the reservation was made. Failure to comply with
these deadlines will subject the entire itinerary to cancellation.
2) Check-In Definition
a) Check-In is defined as the use of any automated process such as Virtual Check-in,
delta.com, Delta Direct, kiosks or face-to-face contact with a Delta representative which
changes the passenger’s reserved seat status from “RS” to “CI or CV” on departing
flight on which the passenger’s reservation was made.
• Reserved Seat (RS) - A reserved seat is an advance seat assignment that can be
made up to 331 days before the scheduled departure date of the confirmed flight.
• Checked-In (CI or CV) - A status indicator in the airline computer system which
denotes the passenger has checked-in for a flight using one of the airlines approved
check-in processes.
When a seat assignment is not available on the passenger’s confirmed flight, they must
present themselves no earlier than six (6) hours prior to departure to a Delta
representative for activation on the seat request list.
b) Baggage Check-In
Passengers who intend to check baggage may be subject to additional check-in
requirements. For additional information, refer to Tariff Rule 190.
c) Standby Status
Passengers who intend to standby for flight must check-in at least 30 minutes prior to
the scheduled departure time of the flight. Delta may not be able to accommodate the
passenger’s request for standby if this provision is not met. For additional information
on voluntary standby travel, please refer to Tariff Rule 141 - Voluntary Standby Travel.
3) Passenger Responsibility
Passengers must arrive at the airport sufficiently in advance of a flight departure time
(generally, not less than 2 hours) to permit completion of government requirements, security
procedures, and departure processing. Departures will not be delayed for passengers who
are improperly documented, have not completed all security processing, or have not met the
carrier’s check-in requirements. Delta is not liable to the passenger for loss or expense due
to the passenger’s failure to comply with this provision.
E) Delta is not liable when it cancels the reservation of any passenger in accordance with this rule,
but:
1) If such reservation was canceled pursuant to paragraph A) of this rule, Delta will take such
action as is provided in Rule 240 (Flight Delays/Cancellations);
2) If such reservation was canceled pursuant to other paragraphs of this rule, Delta will refund
in accordance with Rule 270 (Voluntary Refunds).
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 25 of 63
RULE 141: VOLUNTARY STANDBY TRAVEL
Voluntary standby travel is prohibited unless allowed by the rules of the fare purchased. When
standby is permitted, the following provisions apply:
A) Coach Voluntary Standby Travel
• Delta reserves the right to discontinue accepting and placing passengers on the airport
standby list based on local and/or system operational requirements.
• Delta reserves the right to limit the number of passengers on the airport standby list or change
the rules of the coach voluntary standby program at any time without notice.
• Eligibility for same day standby is subject to, but not limited to, operational considerations,
selected flights, specified booking classes, credit card form of payment only and the applicable
fare rule governing the passenger’s ticket.
• Voluntary standby travel is subject to, but not limited to, the availability of seats at departure
time and does not imply a guarantee of transportation on the requested flight(s) including the
origin, downline, or connecting flights.
• Delta reserves the right to charge a non-refundable same day standby fee when a passenger
requests to standby for an alternate flight for which the passenger does not hold a confirmed
reservation. The fee, if any, may be assessed based on each flight segment from the
passenger’s origin to destination or next point of stop over. These fees will be charged if the
passenger flies any portion of the flight segment, therefore, passengers that are removed at
intermediate points on through flights and/or voluntarily or involuntarily deplaned at a destination
other than the destination for which the fee was intended (diversion) will not be eligible for a
partial or whole refund. Refer to delta.com for current standby fees.
• Delta is not liable to pay compensation, including but not limited to, denied boarding
compensation and amenities, for a failure to provide transportation and/or accommodate the
customer’s voluntary request for standby travel.
• Voluntary standby travel is limited to passengers with a confirmed reservation on the same day
as reflected on the passenger’s ticket. No changes between origin, destination, or co-terminals.
No changes to routing for fares that are flight specific or require specific routing.
• Passengers may be placed on the airport standby list with a boarding priority of the airlines
choosing.
• Delta may choose to accommodate passengers from the airport standby list in a specified
order including but not limited to: ticket value, frequent flyer status, check-in time.
• Delta reserves the right to limit the number of passengers on the airport standby list, only
accept the passenger’s standby request at an airport location and limit the minimum and
maximum time frames that airport standby listing is allowed.
B) Paid Standby Upgrade Program
Delta may offer, on selected flights, the ability for a passenger to standby for a paid standby
upgrade to a premium class of service. The charge will be assessed per segment from origin to
destination based on fare class and mileage. The following rules will apply to the Paid Standby
Upgrade Program:
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 26 of 63
• Delta reserves the right to charge a non-refundable fee when a passenger requests to
upgrade to a premium class of service. A fee will be assessed for each segment of travel.
Refer to delta.com for current fees.
• A flight segment is one takeoff and one landing from a passenger's boarding point to the
first deplaning point. Each flight coupon represents a segment of a trip.
• Paid Standby Upgrade Program is limited to passengers with a confirmed coach cabin
reservation on the same flight and date reflected on the passenger’s ticket.
• Only a Delta approved credit card may be used as form of payment for the Paid Standby
Program. The passenger’s credit card will not be charged until the passenger is cleared
from the standby list and given a boarding document for the specified flight. Other types of
payment including but not limited to: cash, vouchers, certificates or promotions are not
permitted.
• The paid standby upgrade program may be offered on select domestic and international
flights as determined by Delta and Delta reserves the right to change the rules of such
program at any time without notice.
• Delta is not liable to pay compensation, including but not limited to, denied boarding
compensation and amenities, for failure to provide an upgrade and/or accommodate the
customer’s voluntary request for a paid standby upgrade.
• The Paid Standby Upgrade Program is subject to, but not limited to, the availability of seats
at departure time and does not imply a guarantee of an upgrade on the requested flight(s)
including the origin, downline, or connecting flights.
• Passengers may be placed on the airport standby list with a boarding priority of the airlines
choosing.
• Delta may choose to accommodate passengers from the airport standby list in a specified
order including but not limited to: ticket value, frequent flyer status, check-in time.
• Paid Standby Upgrade fees are non-refundable. These fees will be charged if the
passenger flies any portion of the flight segment, therefore, passengers that are removed at
intermediate points on through flights and/or voluntarily or involuntarily deplaned at a
destination other than the destination for which the fee was intended (diversion) will not be
eligible for a partial or whole refund. If the passenger cannot be re-accommodated in the
upgraded cabin, they may be seated in the coach cabin for the remainder of the flight
segment.
• Delta reserves the right to not offer and/or discontinue accepting and placing passengers on
the airport standby list based on local and/or system operational requirements.
RULE 150: APPLICATION OF FARES
A) Where a local or joint fare is specifically published via the desired routing from point of origin to
point of destination, such fare is applicable over such route, notwithstanding that it is higher or
lower than the combination of intermediate fares via such routing.
B) Fares apply only for transportation in the types of aircraft and their seating configuration as
specified in aircraft type and seating configuration tariff no. ts-2, issued by Airline Tariff
Publishing Company, for the classes of service and aircraft stated in connection with fares
governed by this rule.
C) Unless otherwise provided, flights designated by class(es) of service (for example "First Class,"
"Coach," or by other classes), type of aircraft (jet or propeller) and flight departure or arrival
time, as specified in connection with the application of fares, refer to flights bearing such
designations and schedules, flight departure or arrival times, as set forth in the carrier's Official
General Schedule.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 27 of 63
D) Fares and charges apply only to air transportation between the airport and/or heliports through
which the cities named in connection with such fares and charges are served by the carrier or
carriers by whom, or on whose behalf, such fares and charges are published. Ground
transportation other than that specified below will be arranged by the passenger at his/her own
expense.
 EXCEPTION: Passengers making connection at LGA/EWR/JFK airports to/from international
flights scheduled to depart no more than 6 hours after the scheduled arrival of the passenger's
flight at LGA/EWR/JFK airports will be provided ground transportation between above
mentioned airports under the following conditions:

1) Such ground transportation will be provided without charge by independent contractors in
the business of providing such ground transportation, upon request of the passenger.
2) Where ticket coupons have been issued to cover the services of such contractors, and
when such services have not been used, the coupons will have no refund value.
3) Such independent contractors are not agents or servants of any carrier, and Delta does not
assume responsibility for the ground transportation of any passenger and/or his/her
baggage between the airports mentioned above.
EXCEPTION: Ground transportation between various airports, under the conditions listed
below, will be provided without charge by an independent contractor in the business of providing
such transportation, upon request of the passenger. Where ticket coupons have been issued to
cover this service, and when such service has not been used, the coupons will have no
refund value. Such independent contractors are not agents or servants of any carrier, and Delta
does not assume responsibility for the transportation of any passenger or his baggage between
the airports shown.
New York, N.Y./Newark, N.J.
Between any 2 of the 3 New York City metropolitan airports (John F. Kennedy international
airport, Laguardia airport, and Newark airport) for Delta passengers making connections with
Bermuda, Nassau, and transatlantic flights which are scheduled to depart no more than 6 hr.
after the scheduled arrival of the passenger's flight.
RULE 160: CURRENCY
Except as otherwise provided;
A) All fares and charges governed by the tariff are stated as follows:
1) In Canadian dollars for transportation between Canada and the U.S.A. when travel
commences in Canada;
2) In United States dollars for transportation between the U.S.A. and Canada when travel
commences in the U.S.A.
B) Payment for tickets, including prepaid ticket advices (PTA), shall be:
1) In Canadian dollars at the Canadian dollar fare, or its equivalent in other currencies
converted to Canadian dollars at the banker’s buying rate of exchange when travel
commences in Canada.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 28 of 63
2) In U.S. dollars at the U.S. dollar fare, or its equivalent in other currencies converted to U.S.
dollars at the banker’s buying rate of exchange when travel commences in the U.S.A.
C) For the purpose of this rule, the banker’s buying rate of exchange means:
1) In the U.S.A and Canada, the rate published each Tuesday in the ‘Wall Street Journal’
under the heading ‘Foreign Exchange’. This rate will be applicable from Wednesday of each
week up to and including the Tuesday of the following week. When a national holiday falls
on Monday, foreign exchange rates do not appear in the Tuesday edition of the ‘Wall Street
Journal’. In such exceptional cases, the previous week’s rates are used through Wednesday
instead of Tuesday, and the Wednesday edition of the ‘Wall Street Journal’ will be used for
the period Thursday through Tuesday of the following week.
2) In other countries, the rate at which, for the purpose of the transfer of funds through banking
channels (i.e. other than transactions in bank notes, travelers checks, and similar banking
instruments), a bank will purchase a given amount of foreign currency in exchange for one
unit (or units) of the country in which the exchange transaction takes place.
RULE 165: FARE CONSTRUCTION
A) When the fare between any 2 points is not specifically published via the desired routing, such
fare shall be constructed by combining those fares, applicable via the desired routing from the
passenger’s point of origin to point of destination, which produce the lowest fare for the class of
service used provided that such fare will not exceed the lowest fare determined in accordance
with paragraphs 1), 2), 3), 4) and 5) of this rule.
1) Circle-Trip/Round-Trip Maximum
If the fare constructed for such routing exceeds the fare for a circle trip or round trip
constructed from the same point of origin which would include such routing, the circle trip or
round trip fare would apply.
2) Interrupted Travel
If a fare constructed for a trip interrupted by travel other than via the participating carriers
exceeds the applicable through fare for uninterrupted travel via the routing, the applicable
through fare will apply.
3) Maximum Fare- Travel via the same or different classes of service
A combination of fares of the same or different classes of service (see NOTE below) shall
not exceed the lowest of the following fares or combination of fares via the same carrier(s)
between and via the same point:
a) A combination of fares via the class of service used for a portion of the transportation
and fares for a higher class of service for the remainder of the transportation; or
b) A combination of fares via higher classes of service; or
c) A through published fare via a higher class of service; or
EXCEPTION: A through published fare via a higher class of service to or from a more
distant point may not be used to construct a fare for an intermediate point(s) if there is a
published fare for the same higher class of service to or from such intermediate point(s).
d) In the event that 2 or more fare types/booking codes are used in an itinerary, the
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 29 of 63
through fare to be used, if lower than the sum of applicable fares, is the highest fare
type/booking code ranked above.
 NOTE: For the purpose of paragraphs a), b) and c), fares are published in the following
descending order of classes of service:
1) First Class/Business - J, C, D, I, Z
5) Coach – W, S, Y, B, M, H, Q, K, L, U, T, X, V, E
B) Construction of fares for combination of jet and propeller transportation in the same class of
service where no through one-factor fare is published from point of origin to point of destination
via the route of movement for a journey in one class of service, partly on jet aircraft and partly
on propeller aircraft, the applicable fare for such transportation shall be constructed as follows:
Where a through one-factor fare for propeller aircraft is published from point or origin to point of
destination via the route of movement for the class of service used, the applicable fare shall be
such through one-factor fare, plus the difference between the fares for jet and propeller aircraft,
for the class of service used, between the points where jet aircraft is used. For the purpose of
applying paragraph (4) only, the classes of service are:
(1) First class service
(2) Coach service other than night coach
(3) Night coach service
RULE 170: ROUND-TRIP FARES
 When a ticket is purchased before the transportation commences or is reissued pursuant to
Rule 255 (Rerouting), the fare applicable to a round trip between two points over the lines of
one or more carriers shall be:
A) When specifically published via the desired routing, the applicable round-trip fare
specifically published by or on behalf of such carrier(s); or
B) When not specifically published via the desired routing, the sum of the one-way fares
applicable to the respective one-way segments or the sum of the round-trip segment fares if
these are published.
RULE 175: CIRCLE-TRIP FARES
A) Except as provided below, when a ticket therefore is purchased before the transportation
commences or is reissued pursuant to Rule 255 (Rerouting), the fare applicable to a circle trip
via participating carriers or partly via participating carriers and partly via other scheduled air
carriers and National Air Taxi Conference members shall be for the portion of carriage via one
or more participating carriers, the sum of 50% of the applicable round-trip fares for the
respective sections, constructed from the point of origin via the route of travel that produces the
lowest fare for the circle trip for class of service used.
B) The provision of this rule will also apply when a portion of a circle trip involves passage other
than by air between any of the following groups of cities:
 Miami, FL and Ft. Lauderdale, FL
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 30 of 63
 Baltimore, MD and Washington, DC
 Ontario, CA and Los Angeles, CA
 EXCEPTION: The provisions of this rule are not applicable when any portion of the circle trip is
flown via charter services or military air services.
RULE 180: STOPOVERS
A) Stopovers will be permitted only upon payment of the combination of applicable fares, or
stopover charges.
B) A stopover, as used herein, will occur when a passenger arrives at an intermediate or junction
transfer point on a flight on any carrier, and fails to depart from such intermediate or junction
point within 4 hours after their arrival at such point.
RULE 185: ROUTINGS
A) Each fare applies only to transportation via the routings specified in connection with such fare.
Any local routing in connection with a fare applicable to transportation over the lines of any one
carrier between any 2 points shall be included in any routing in connection with any published
joint fare which includes transportation over the lines of such carrier between such points,
unless expressly excluded from the joint fare routing or routings.
B) Where more than one local fare applies for the portion of passage via a carrier participating in a
joint fare, the joint fare shall apply only via the routings specified in connection with the lowest
local fare.
 EXCEPTION: The provisions of paragraph B) will not apply to joint fares constructed in
accordance with Rule 165. Travel will be permitted via the routing authorized in connection with
the local fares used in constructing such joint fares.
RULE 187: MINIMUM FARES
Except as otherwise provided, when rules in this tariff or in tariffs governed by this tariff,
provided for application of fares based on percentages of other fares, the minimum one-way
fare applicable to the total local or interline transportation sold subject to this tariff shall be USD
6.00 provided that in the event the passenger's transportation is via 2 or more carriers having
different minimum fares, the highest minimum fare shall apply to such Interline carriers having
different minimum fares.
Wholly or One-Way
Partially via USD CAD Trip Exception
 DL 6.00 7.08 --- ---
RULE 189: INTERLINE BAGGAGE ACCEPTANCE (effective for travel to/from Canada for tickets
issued on/after 01APR15)
Definitions
"Airline Designator Code"
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 31 of 63
an identification code comprised of two-characters which is used for commercial and traffic
purposes such as reservations, schedules, timetables, ticketing, tariffs and airport display systems.
Airline designators are assigned by IATA. When this code appears on a ticket, it reflects the carrier
that is marketing the flight, which might be different from the carrier operating the flight.
"Baggage Rules"
the conditions associated with the acceptance of baggage, services incidental to the transportation
of baggage, allowances and all related charges. For example, baggage rules may address the
following topics:
• The maximum weight and dimensions of passenger bags, if applicable, both checked and
unchecked;
• The number of checked and unchecked passenger bags that can be transported and the applicable
charges;
• Excess and oversized baggage charges;
• Charges related to check-in, collection and delivery of checked baggage;
• Acceptance and charges related to special items, e.g. surf boards, pets bicycles, etc;
• Baggage provisions related to prohibited or unacceptable items, including embargoes;
• Terms or conditions that would alter or impact the baggage allowances and charges applicable to
passengers (e.g. frequent flyer status, early check-in, pre-purchasing baggage allowances with a
particular credit card); and,
• Other rules governing treatment of baggage at stopover points, including passengers subject to
special baggage allowances or charges, etc.
Carrier Definitions (Various)
"Down Line Carrier"
any carrier, other than the selecting carrier, who is identified as providing interline
transportation to the passenger by virtue of the passenger’s ticket.
"Marketing Carrier"
the carrier that sells flights under its code.
"Most Significant Carrier (MSC)"
is determined by a methodology, established by IATA (Resolution 302), which establishes,
for each portion of a passenger's itinerary where baggage is checked through to a new
stopover point, which carrier will be performing the most significant part of the service. For
travelers under the Resolution 302 system, the baggage rules of the MSC will apply. For
complex itineraries involving multiple checked baggage points, there may be more than one
MSC, resulting in the application of differing baggage rules through an itinerary.
"Most Significant Carrier (MSC) – IATA Resolution 302 as conditioned by the CTA"
in this instance, the MSC is determined by applying IATA Resolution 302 methodology as
conditioned by the CTA. The CTA’s reservation has stipulated that only a single set of
baggage rules may apply to any given interline itinerary. The aim of the Agency’s
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 32 of 63
reservation is to allow the selecting carrier to use the MSC methodology to determine which
carrier's baggage rules apply to an international interline itinerary to or from Canada, while
reinforcing the role of tariffs in the determination of which carrier’s rules apply.
"Operating Carrier"
the carrier that operates the actual flight.
"Participating Carrier(s)"
includes both the selecting carrier and down line carriers who have been identified as
providing interline transportation to the passenger by virtue of the passenger’s ticket.
"Selected Carrier"
the carrier whose baggage rules apply to the entire interline itinerary.
"Selecting Carrier"
the carrier whose designator code is identified on the first flight segment of the passenger’s
ticket at the beginning of an interline itinerary issued on a single ticket whose origin or
ultimate destination is in Canada.
"Interline agreement"
an agreement between two or more carriers to co-ordinate the transportation of passengers
and their baggage from the flight of one air carrier to the flight of another air carrier (through
to the next point of stopover).
"Interline itinerary"
all flights reflected on a single ticket involving multiple air carriers. Only travel on a single
ticket is subject to the Agency’s approach provided the origin or the ultimate ticketed
destination is a point in Canada.
"Interline travel"
travel involving multiple air carriers listed on a single ticket that is purchased via a single
transaction.
"Single ticket"
a document that permits travel from origin to destination. It may include interline/code-share
and intra-line segments. It may also include end-to-end combinations (i.e., stand alone fares
that can be bought separately but combined together to form one price).
"Summary page at the end of an online purchase"
a page on a carrier’s Web site which summarizes the details of a ticket purchase transaction
just after the passenger has agreed to purchase the ticket from the carrier and has provided
a form of payment.
"Ultimate ticketed destination"
In situations where a passenger’s origin is a non-Canadian point and the itinerary includes
at least one stop in Canada, as well as at least one stop outside of Canada. If the stop in
Canada is the farthest checked point and the stop is more than 24 hours, the Agency would
consider the ultimate ticketed destination to be Canada.
(A) Applicability
This rule is applicable to all interline itineraries issued on a single ticket whose origin or ultimate ticketed
destination is in Canada.
It establishes how the carrier will determine which carrier’s baggage rules apply to any passenger’s entire
interline itinerary.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 33 of 63
(B) General
For the purposes of interline baggage acceptance:
i. the carrier whose designator code is identified on the first segment of the passenger’s interline ticket
will be known as the selecting carrier.
ii. any carrier who is identified as providing interline transportation to the passenger by virtue of the
passenger’s ticket will be known as a participating carrier.
(C) Baggage Rule Determination by Selecting Carrier
I. Checked Baggage
The selecting carrier will:
a) Select and apply its own baggage rules as set out in its tariff to the entire interline itinerary.
OR
b) Select the Most Significant Carrier, as determined by IATA Resolution 302 and conditioned by the
Canadian Transportation Agency, in order for that carrier’s baggage rules, as established in its tariff,
to apply to the entire interline itinerary.
The carrier identified by means of a) or b) will be known as the selected carrier.
When Delta Air Lines is the selecting carrier, Delta Air Lines will select the Most Significant Carrier, as
determined by IATA Resolution 302 and conditioned by the Canadian Transportation Agency, in order for
that carrier’s baggage rule, as established in its tariff, to apply to the entire interline itinerary.
II. Carry-On Baggage
Each operating carrier’s carry-on baggage allowances will apply to each flight segment in an interline
itinerary. Notwithstanding, the carry-on baggage charges that will apply to the entire interline itinerary will be
those of the selected carrier.
(D) Baggage Rule Application by Participating Carrier
Where Delta Air Lines is not the selected carrier on an interline itinerary but is a participating carrier that is
providing transportation to the passenger based on the ticket issued, Delta Air Lines will apply as its own the
baggage rules, with the exception of rules as to the acceptance of pets as checked baggage, of the selected
carrier throughout the interline itinerary. As to the acceptance of pets as checked baggage, Delta’s rules will
apply.
(E) Disclosure of Baggage Rules
Summary Page at the end of an Online Purchase and E-Ticket Disclosure
1. For baggage rules provisions related to a passenger’s 1st and 2nd checked bag and the passenger’s
carry-on baggage (i.e., the passenger’s “standard” baggage allowance), when Delta Air Lines sells and
issues a ticket for an interline itinerary, it will disclose to the passenger on any summary page at the end
of an online purchase and on the passenger’s itinerary/receipt and e-ticket at the time of ticketing the
baggage information relevant to the passenger itinerary as set out in paragraph 2. below. The disclosed
information will reflect the baggage rules of the selected carrier.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 34 of 63
2. The carrier will disclose the following information:
a) name of the carrier whose baggage rules apply;
b) passenger’s free baggage allowance and/or applicable fees;
c) size and weight limits of the bags, if applicable;
d) terms or conditions that would alter or impact a passenger’s standard baggage allowances and
charges (e.g. frequent flyer status, early check-in, pre-purchasing baggage allowances with a
particular credit card);
e) existence of any embargoes that may be applicable to the passenger’s itinerary; and,
f) application of baggage allowances and charges (i.e., whether they are applied once per direction or
if they are applicable at each stopover point).
3. The carrier will provide this information in text format on the passenger’s e-ticket confirmation. Any fee
information provided for carry-on bags and the first and second checked bag will be expressed as
specific charges (i.e., not a range).
Web site Disclosure
The carrier will disclose on its Web site, in a convenient and prominent location, a complete and
comprehensive summary of all of the carrier’s own baggage rules, including information concerning:
a) The maximum weight and dimensions of passenger bags, if applicable, both checked and
unchecked;
b) The number of checked and unchecked passenger bags that can be transported and the
applicable charges;
c) Excess and oversized baggage charges;
d) Charges related to check in, collection and delivery of checked baggage;
e) Acceptance and charges related to special items, e.g. surf boards, pets, bicycles, etc.;
f) Baggage provisions related to prohibited or unacceptable items, including embargoes;
g) Terms or conditions that would alter or impact the baggage allowances and charges applicable
to passengers (e.g. frequent flyer status, early check in, pre-purchasing baggage allowances
with a particular credit card);and,
Other rules governing treatment of baggage at stopover points, including passengers
subject to special baggage allowances or charges, etc.
RULE 190: BAGGAGE
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 35 of 63
Ticketed passengers may check baggage for carriage in the cargo compartment of the aircraft
and/or may carry baggage on board the aircraft, subject to the provisions of this rule.
A. Baggage Allowance
1. Checked Baggage and Carry-On Item
 Customers who purchased a ticket for travel in First or Business Class may check two bags
up to 70 lbs each, free of charge. Lower limits may apply on some flights due to operational
or safety restrictions. All baggage must meet the size and weight limits set forth in this rule
to qualify for the free baggage allowance. Delta may accept additional, larger, or heavier
items as checked baggage when space is available, but will require the payment of an
excess baggage fee, as set forth in this rule.
2. One Personal Item
In addition to the carry-on item included within the baggage allowance, passengers may
carry one personal item on to the aircraft. This may include:
• A purse
• A briefcase
• A laptop computer
• A camera case
• A diaper bag, or
• An item of a similar or smaller size to those listed above
3. Personal Assistance Devices and Medical Equipment/Supplies
Subject to the availability of space on the aircraft, passengers may also check or carry on
personal assistive devices such as wheelchairs or crutches, provided the passenger is
dependent on them, and medical supplies or equipment, provided the item meets the
applicable size and weight restrictions. Such items do not count towards the free baggage
allowance.
4. Additional Items Which Do Not Count Towards Free Baggage Allowance
Subject to the availability of space on the aircraft, the following items may also be carried on
board and do not count towards the baggage allowance:
• Food item for immediate consumption
• One box or bag of duty free items
• Coat or jacket
• Umbrella
• One item of reading material
• For transportation from points in Hawaii, one box or mesh bag of pineapples
5. Children Traveling on Free or Reduced Fare Tickets
Children traveling free of charge receive no free baggage allowance. Children paying 50
percent or more of the normal adult fare receive the same free baggage allowance as a
passenger paying the adult fare.
B. General Rules for Acceptance of Baggage
1. Subject to Inspection
All baggage is subject to inspection. Delta will not transport baggage that the passenger
refuses to submit for inspection.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 36 of 63
2. Suitable for Transport
Delta may refuse to accept for transport as baggage any item that, in Delta’s sole judgment:
• Creates a risk of harm or annoyance to other passengers;
• Poses a risk to other baggage or cargo;
• Delta is prohibited from carrying by any law, regulation or government directive;
• Is in a condition which creates an unreasonable risk of damage to the baggage under
normal handling conditions; or
• Is otherwise unsuitable for transportation.
3. Restricted Articles
Delta will not accept as baggage any article which is listed in the DOT hazardous materials
regulations (49 CFR 171-177), the International Civil Aviation Organization Technical
Instruction for the Safe Transport of Dangerous Goods by Air, and/or the IATA Dangerous
Goods Regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, on flights other than those operated by
Delta Connection carriers, Delta will accept a maximum of 5.5 lbs. of dry ice in checked or
carry-on baggage. The passenger must declare such dry ice at the initial point of check-in.
C. Carry-On Baggage
The following additional conditions apply to the acceptance of carry-on baggage:
1. Subject to Space Availability
Acceptance of carry-on baggage is subject to space availability on the aircraft at the time
the passenger boards. If adequate space is not available, Delta may require that the
baggage be checked. Delta will gate check the baggage free of charge assuming the item
meets Delta’s general size limit for carry-on baggage allowance.
2. Stowage During Flight
All carry-on baggage must be retained in the passenger's custody and stored under a seat
or in an overhead compartment approved for the carriage of such baggage.
3. Size Limits for Carry-On Baggage
Carry-on baggage may not exceed a maximum outside linear dimension of 45 inches.
4. Responsibility for Carry-On Baggage
Carry-on baggage which remains in the custody of the passenger is the sole responsibility
of the passenger. Delta will not accept claims for lost, forgotten, or stolen carry-on baggage
unless such baggage is tendered to Delta's in-flight personnel for storage during flight or
otherwise delivered into the custody of Delta. Storage in overhead bins or under a seat
shall not be construed as delivery into Delta’s custody.
D. Cabin Seat Baggage
As an alternative to checking baggage, passengers may request that items of baggage
which do not qualify as carry-on luggage be transported as cabin seat baggage, subject to
the provisions of this rule.
1. Stowage of Cabin Seat Baggage
Cabin seat baggage must be carried aboard the aircraft by the passenger and properly
secured in a seat available for stowage of cabin seat baggage. On Delta-operated flights,
seats available for cabin seat baggage stowage include any seat within a passenger
compartment, provided that a physical bulkhead or divider is present at the front of the
compartment. On flights operated by Delta Connection carriers, cabin seat baggage may
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 37 of 63
be located only in the first row of seats behind the bulkhead row of seats or in a row forward
of the most forward-seated passenger. Acceptance of cabin seat baggage is subject to
space availability on the aircraft and is not available on all flights.
2. Fee for Cabin Seat Baggage
The fee for carriage of cabin seat baggage is the full applicable fare for that portion of the
trip on which the extra seat is used. Cabin seat baggage will not be included in determining
the free baggage allowance or excess baggage charges.
3. Restrictions on Acceptance of Cabin Seat Baggage
The following additional restrictions apply:
• Baggage must not exceed 100 lbs/45 kg unless otherwise set forth in this rule.
• The passenger and baggage must occupy the same compartment.
• Baggage must not contain dangerous goods.
• Baggage must be packaged or covered in a manner to avoid possible injury to passengers.
• Baggage must be properly secured by a seat belt to eliminate the possibility of shifting
during ground and flight operations.
• The location of the baggage must not restrict access to or the use of any required
emergency or regular exit, or the aisle in the cabin.
• The location of the baggage must not obscure any passenger's view of the seat belt, no
smoking or required exit signs.
E. Checked Baggage
The following additional conditions apply to the acceptance of checked baggage.
1. Proper Identification
Each piece of checked baggage must have a current identification tag or label on the
outside containing the passenger’s name, address and telephone number.
2. Routing of Checked Baggage
Except as otherwise provided in this rule, baggage will be checked only to the passenger’s
destination or next point of stopover. Baggage will be carried in the same aircraft as the
passenger unless Delta determines in its sole discretion that such carriage is impracticable,
in which case Delta will carry the baggage on the next preceding or subsequent flight on
which space is available. Baggage may be reclaimed at an intermediate point only if:
a) Connection Time Exceeding Four Hours
Passengers making connections to the first available Delta flight departing from an
intermediate point may reclaim their baggage at the intermediate point if the connection
exceeds four hours.
b) Transfer Between Airports
For passengers connecting to flights scheduled to depart from an airport different from the
one at which the passenger is scheduled to arrive, baggage will be checked to the airport
from which the passenger will transfer to the connecting airport.
3. Delivery of Checked Baggage
At the time of check-in, Delta will issue a baggage check to the passenger identifying each
item of baggage accepted for transport as checked baggage. Delta will deliver checked
baggage to the bearer of the baggage check at the baggage claim area of the airport
destination shown in the baggage check. It is the passenger’s responsibility to claim the
checked baggage at the baggage claim area and to present the baggage check, if
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 38 of 63
requested, when doing so. Delta assumes no obligation to verify the identity of the bearer
at the destination airport.
4. Time Limits for Baggage Check-In
Except as set forth below, Delta may refuse to accept for checking any baggage that is not
tendered to Delta at the airport curbside or ticket counter acceptance positions at least 60
minutes before the scheduled departure of the passenger’s flight.
5. Size and Weight Limits for Checked Baggage
Except as otherwise provided in this rule, checked baggage may not exceed a maximum
outside linear dimension of 62 inches or a maximum weight of 50 lbs. Delta may in its
discretion accept larger or heavier baggage, but may require payment of an excess
baggage fee, as set forth below.
6. Excess Baggage Fees
Delta may, in its sole discretion, accept for transport, baggage in excess of the maximum
number, size and/or weight allowances described above. Such baggage will be accepted
for transportation only upon the payment of the excess baggage fees specified in this rule.
The excess baggage fees set forth below apply each way, and are cumulative, i.e., a single
item of baggage may be subject to additional item, oversize, and overweight charges if
applicable. In addition to these charges, baggage connecting to other airlines may be
subject to the connecting airline's charges for additional, oversize, and/or overweight
baggage.
a) Additional Items of Baggage
Each item of checked baggage in excess of the baggage allowance, if accepted, is subject
to an excess baggage piece fee, as set forth in the table below. Subject to space
availability, Delta may accept up to 10 total checked bags per passenger (including any free
bag allowance) on fights operated by Delta Air Lines and up to a total of 4 total checked
bags per passenger (including any free bag allowance) on flights operated by a Delta
Connection carrier.
Baggage
Fees
Economy Class First/Business Class
1st Bag USD30/CAD30 No Fee
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 39 of 63
2nd Bag USD50/CAD50 No Fee
Extra Piece 3 USD150/CAD150
4-10 USD200/CAD200
3
USD150/CAD150
4-10
USD200/CAD200
b) Oversize Baggage
Delta may accept baggage with a maximum outside linear dimensions exceeding 62 inches,
but not exceeding 80 inches, as oversize baggage. Except as otherwise set forth in this
rule, each item of such baggage, if accepted, is subject to the following oversize baggage
fees:
(1) for items exceeding 62 inches, but not exceeding 80 inches –
USD200/CAD200
c) Overweight Baggage
Delta may accept baggage weighing more than 50 lbs. but not exceeding 100 lbs. as
overweight baggage. Each item of such baggage, if accepted, is subject to an overweight
baggage fee as set forth in the following table:
Destination Baggage Weight Overweight Baggage Fee
Between Canada
and US
Exceeding 50 lbs.,
but not exceeding 70
lbs.
 USD100/CAD100
Exceeding 70 lbs.,
but not exceeding
100 lbs.
USD 200/CAD 200
Except as otherwise set forth in this rule, baggage weighing more than 100 lbs. will not be
accepted as checked baggage.
d) Exception for Active Duty Military Personnel
Active duty U.S. military personnel traveling on orders to or from duty stations and active
U.S. military dependents traveling on relocation orders are allowed up to four checked bags
on Delta Connection ® carriers, and up to five checked bags on Delta aircraft only, at no charge.
Each bag may weigh up to 100 lbs. and measure up to 80 linear inches (203 cm). Allowances are
subject to any applicable embargoes or regional weight restrictions.
Additionally, military personnel traveling on personal business will be allowed two checked bags up
to 50 lbs (23 kg) and 62 linear inches (158 cm) at no charge.
e) Exception for Media
Camera, film, video tape, lighting, and sound equipment will be accepted when tendered by
representatives of network or local television broadcasting companies or commercial film-
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 40 of 63
making companies, upon payment of USD50 / CAD50 per article with the maximum weight
allowed of 100 lbs and size of up to 115 total linear inches.
7. Additional Restrictions on Checked Baggage
 a) Baggage Embargos
1) Year Round Embargo
A maximum of three checked pieces allowed; baggage fees may apply. Checked baggage weighing 51-
70lbs will be subject to excess baggage charges. No baggage over 70 lbs or 62 linear inches will be
accepted for travel to the following points at any time throughout the year.
San Juan, Puerto Rico (SJU)
A maximum of two checked pieces allowed; baggage fees may apply. Checked baggage weighing 51-70lbs
will be subject to excess baggage charges. No baggage over 70 lbs or 62 linear inches will be accepted for
travel to the following points at any time throughout the year.
St. Thomas, STT
St. Maarten, SXM

F. Acceptance of Fragile, Perishable, or Precious Items
1. Items Deemed to Be Fragile, Perishable, or Precious
The classes of items listed below are deemed to be fragile, perishable, precious, or
otherwise unsuitable as checked baggage and will not be accepted as baggage, except as
set forth in subsection, F.2., below.
a) Artistic Items
Vases, figurines, ceramic articles, trophies, paintings, sculpture, antique furniture, and
similar objects of art.
b) Electronic and Mechanical Items
Television sets, radios, amplifiers, speakers, tape recorders, video recorders, DVD players,
digital music or video devices, electronic communications devices, calculators, computers,
typewriters, dictation equipment, and similar electronic or mechanical items.
c) Glass
Terrariums, mirrors, crystal, china and glass containers for liquors, wines, beer, liqueurs,
and perfumes, and similar items fabricated from glass or similar materials.
d) Infant Items
Fragile items for infant care, including without limitation strollers and car seats.
e) Jewelry or Precious Metals
Jewelry, silverware, precious metals, and similar highly valuable items.

 f) Musical Instruments and Equipment
Guitars, violins, trombones, drums, and other musical instruments or equipment.
 g) Perishable Items
Fresh or frozen foodstuffs such as fruits, vegetables, meats, fish, poultry, and bakery
products; floral and nursery stock such as flower, fruit, and vegetable plants; cut flowers and
foliage such as floral displays; and similar items of a perishable nature.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 41 of 63
 h) Photographic/Cinematographic Equipment
Cameras, lenses, flash bulbs, projectors, video cameras, and other photographic or
cinematographic equipment
 i) Precision Items
Microscopes, oscilloscopes, meters, counters, polygraphs, scales, and similar precision
equipment.
 j) Recreational and Sporting Goods
Fragile recreational or sporting goods of any kind, including without limitation archery
equipment, golf clubs, tennis rackets, skis, fishing rods, sculls, surfboards, scuba diving
masks and pressure gauges, scopes, sporting trophies such as animal horns and antlers,
skin diving gear, model airplanes, bicycles, backpacks, knapsacks, sleeping bags, and tents
made of plastic, vinyl, or other easily tearable material with aluminum frames, outside
pockets, or protruding straps and buckles.
 k) Toys
Dolls, dollhouses, model trains and airplanes, and similar toys of a fragile nature.
 l) Valuable or Fragile Papers
Cash, cash equivalents, securities, negotiable instruments, irreplaceable documents,
advertising displays, models, sketches, blueprints, maps, and other valuable or fragile paper
materials.
 m) Other Fragile or Perishable Items
Any item not otherwise listed above which, by its nature or packaging, is subject to damage
or spoilage during its carriage as checked baggage, despite exercise by the carrier of
ordinary care in its handling.
2. Acceptance of Fragile, Perishable or Precious Items
 a) Duty to Identify Fragile, Perishable, or Precious Items
The passenger must identify all fragile, perishable, or precious items contained in any
baggage tendered to Delta for carriage at the time of check-in.
 b) Precious or Highly Valuable Items
Precious or other highly valuable items, including without limitation cash, cash equivalents,
securities, negotiable instruments, irreplaceable documents, jewelry, silverware, precious
metals, works of art, computers, electronic equipment, photographic equipment, and any
other items that cannot be easily replaced if lost or damaged may not be transported in
checked baggage.
 c) Acceptance of Properly Packaged Fragile Items
Except as provided below, fragile items will be accepted as checked baggage only if, in
Delta’s sole determination, the items are appropriately packaged in an original factorysealed carton, cardboard mailing tube, a container or case designed for shipping such
items, or packed with protective internal material sufficient to protect the items from damage
during ordinary handling, and are otherwise suitable for transport under these rules.
 d) Acceptance of Other Fragile or Perishable Items
Perishable items and fragile items not accepted by Delta pursuant to the preceding section
may be accepted upon the condition that the passenger agree in advance and in writing to
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 42 of 63
release the carrier of liability for loss or damage resulting from the unsuitability of such items
as checked baggage and/or the inadequacy of their packaging, in a Limited Liability
Release form to be provided by Delta.
G. Acceptance of Animals
1. Acceptance of Pets as Checked or Cabin Baggage
Subject to the exceptions specified in this rule, Delta does not accept animals for transportation
as checked baggage. The limited exceptions to this general prohibition are as follows: Delta will
accept pets and animals for transportation as checked baggage for (1) members of the U.S.
military and their family members who are traveling on active transfer orders, and (2)
passengers traveling with emotional-support animals. As to animals that fall within those
exceptions, Delta will accept cats, dogs, household birds, guinea pigs, rabbits, and hamsters as
checked baggage. Delta does not accept snub-nosed or pug-nosed pets as checked baggage
under any circumstances. Carriage of any other pets as checked baggage will be determined on
a case-by-case basis at Delta’s sole discretion. Animals that do not fall within the
aforementioned exceptions may be shipped as air cargo. Please contact Delta or visit delta.com
for rules applicable to cargo shipments. This rule does not apply to the transportation of service
animals pursuant to Rule 55.
 a) Advance Arrangements Required
Advance arrangements must be made with Delta to transport pets as checked or carry-on
baggage. Animals are accepted on a first-come, first-served basis.
 b) Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations
The passenger is solely responsible for compliance with any applicable laws, customs,
and/or other governmental regulations, requirements, or restrictions of the country, state, or
territory to which the animal is being transported.
 c) Financial Responsibility
The passenger is responsible for all financial obligations involved in transporting the animal,
including but not limited to the cost of obtaining vaccinations, health certificates, and
quarantine charges.
2. Special Conditions for Acceptance of Animals as Checked Baggage
The following additional conditions apply to acceptance of animals as checked baggage.
 a) Environmental Conditions
Delta will not accept animals as checked baggage when, in Delta’s sole discretion,
environmental conditions may pose a hazard to the safety or comfort of the animal. In
particular, and without limitation of the foregoing, animals will not be accepted during the
following periods or on the following flights:
(1) Maximum temperature
Warm-blooded live animals will not be accepted as checked baggage if the temperature is
expected to be above 85F / 29C at any point during the animal’s journey.
(2) Minimum temperature
Delta will not accept warm blooded live animals as checked baggage when the temperature
is expected to be below 10F / -12C. The minimum temperature does not apply to sled dogs
or other animals that normally live outdoors and are naturally acclimated to cold
temperatures.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 43 of 63
 b) Transfer to Another Carrier
Animals will not be checked beyond a point of transfer to another carrier.
 c) Approved Container Required
 (1) Compliance with USDA Requirements
Animals accepted as checked baggage must be confined in a shipping kennel approved
by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). The passenger is responsible for insuring
that the container meets all governmental requirements for the safe and humane
transportation of the animal being transported. Without limitation of the foregoing,
containers must be large enough to allow the animal to stand upright and turn around
and must be leak proof. Delta may refuse to accept any animal as checked baggage if,
in its sole discretion, the animal is not properly confined in an approved container.
 (2) Size and Weight Limitations
Size and weight limitations for containers that will be accepted as checked baggage also
apply, and vary depending upon the aircraft and operating carrier. For current
information on the size and weight limitations that apply to specific flights, contact Delta
or visit delta.com.
 (3) Number of Animals Per Container
No more than one adult dog or cat may occupy a single container. Two puppies or
kittens may occupy a single container provided they are less than 6 months of age and
weigh less than 20 lbs. each. Two household birds will be permitted in the same
container.
 (4) Number of Containers Per Passenger
Delta will accept no more than two containers per passenger as checked baggage on
most flights. For flights operated by some Delta Connection carriers, only one container
per passenger will be accepted.
3. Special Conditions for Acceptance of Animals as Baggage In The Passenger
Compartment
In addition to the general baggage rules set forth above, the following special conditions
apply to acceptance of personal pets as carry-on baggage in the passenger compartment.
 a) Animals Accepted as Baggage in the Passenger Compartment
Personal pets that may be accepted as baggage in the passenger compartment include
dogs, cats, and household birds. Other pets or animals are not accepted. The pet must be
small enough to fit comfortably in a kennel under the seat directly in front of the passenger,
and must be at least eight weeks old. Pets will not be accepted as carry-on baggage on
flights to/from Hawaii.
 b) Size and Weight Limitations
Maximum carry-on kennel dimensions apply and vary depending upon the aircraft and
operating carrier. For current information on the size limitations that apply to specific flights,
contact Delta or visit delta.com.
 c) Container and Animal Storage
The container must be stored under the seat directly in front of the passenger. The animal
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 44 of 63
will not be carried in the first (bulkhead) row or adjacent to an emergency exit. The animal
must remain in the container while in the boarding area or Delta airport lounge, during
boarding or deplaning, and at all times while on board the aircraft.
 d) Removal of Offensive or Disruptive Animals
In the event the animal becomes offensive or causes a disturbance during transit, the
animal may be removed, at the captain's discretion, at the first en route stop and placed in
the cargo compartment for continuing transportation.
 e) Maximum Number of Animals Accepted Per Passenger
A passenger may not carry on more than one pet.
 f) Maximum Number of Animals Accepted Per Flight
Delta limits the number of pets that will be accepted for carriage in the passenger
compartment on each flight as follows:
• two pets in the First Class cabin, if applicable
• two pets in the international business or international Delta One™cabin, if applicable
• four pets in the main (Coach) cabin on Delta-operated flights
• two pets in the main (Coach) cabin on flights operated by Delta Connection carriers
Note: For aircraft with only one cabin the total allotment is four pets on flights operated
by either Delta or the Delta Connection carriers
 g) Unaccompanied Minors
Animals may travel in the cabin with unaccompanied minors, but will not be accepted as
checked baggage unless one of the exceptions specified in this rule applies. Pet in Cabin
fees apply in addition to the UNMR service charge.
 4. Charges for Animals Accepted as Baggage
 a) Animals Accepted As Checked Baggage
The fee for carriage of animals accepted as checked baggage is USD200/CAD200
one way. The animal and its container will not be included in determining the free baggage
allowance.
 b) Animals Accepted as Carry-On Baggage
The fee for carriage of animals accepted in the passenger cabin is USD95/CAD95 one
way. Acceptance of the animal for carriage in the passenger compartment will be in lieu of
one piece of carry-on baggage.
H. Acceptance of Other Special Items
Special baggage rules apply to certain categories of items, as set forth below. Except as
stated below, the general baggage rules, including fees for excess, overweight, and
oversize baggage, and the restrictions on acceptance of fragile or perishable items, apply to
the carriage of these special items.
1. Antlers and Game Meat
 a) Antlers
Antlers may be accepted as checked baggage. Standard baggage allowance and fees
based on travel region apply
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 45 of 63
Antlers weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged the applicable excess weight fee
If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm),
the item will not be accepted
Items in excess of baggage allowance will be subject to additional or overweight baggage
fees.
Space must be available, and the following restrictions apply:
Antlers must be free of residue, the skull must be wrapped and the tips protected.
Antler/animal racks cannot exceed 100 lbs (45kgs) and linear dimension
(length+width+height) cannot exceed 115 inches/292 cm
Antlers will be accepted on Delta Connection flights only if space is available.
In some cases, there may not be space available for antlers to travel on the same plane
with you. These will be held at the local baggage service office or can be delivered for a fee.
Contact Reservations for more information.
 b) Game Meat
On most flights, Delta will accept game meat for transportation subject to the rules for
carriage of perishable items. Game meat is not permitted in checked baggage on flights
from Jackson Hole, Wyoming (JAC).
2. Bicycles
Bicycles, non-motorized touring or single seat racing, are allowed as checked baggage on
most flights, with the exception of certain Delta Connection® carriers.
Standard baggage allowance and fees based on travel region apply
Bicycles weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged the applicable excess weight fee
If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm)
or exceedes 100 lbs, the item will not be accepted
Items in excess of baggage allowance will be subject to additional or overweight baggage
fees
A limited liability release form must be signed by the passenger in the case that the bike is
not properly packed.
If the bicycle is packaged in a hard shell case specifically designed for transporting bicycles,
then a limited release form is not required.
If the bicycle is packaged in a soft sided travel bag or anything other than a hard shell case,
a limited release form will need to be signed.
Delta is not responsible for damage noted at the time of check in or damage due to over
packing the bag. Bicycles must be packaged in a cardboard or canvas container with
handlebars fixed sideways and pedals removed, or with handlebars and pedals encased in
plastic, Styrofoam, or other similar material. Limits on the total number of bicycles that may
be accepted apply for some Delta Connection flights. For those flights, advance
reservations are required.
3. Child restraint seat
A DOT-approved child restraint seat will be accepted for transportation in the passenger
compartment when an additional seat is reserved, a ticket is purchased, and the restraint
seat can be properly secured by the seat belt. If no ticket for the infant is purchased, Delta
may, at its discretion, accept the seat for transportation in the passenger compartment if
space is available. If no space is available, the child seat restraint must be checked as
baggage at the gate and will not count against the passenger’s checked baggage
allowance. Child carrier devices without DOT approval labels may not be used to secure
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 46 of 63
the child when the seat belt sign is illuminated.
4. Fishing Equipment
Fishing poles (if properly encased) may be accepted if the maximum outside linear
dimensions exceed 62 inches but do not exceed 115 inches; however, standard excess size
charges apply.
5. Golfing Equipment
One piece of golf equipment may be accepted as checked baggage. Standard checked
baggage fees apply. Overweight baggage fees will apply to bags that exceed 50 lbs.
Oversized baggage fees will be waived for golf bags that exceed 62 linear inches and are
less than or equal to 115 linear inches. Bags exceeding 115 linear inches will not be
accepted.
One item of golfing equipment is defined as:
1. one golf bag containing one set of golf clubs
2. golf balls and tees; and
3. 1 pair of golf shoes
Golf clubs will be accepted as checked baggage under the following conditions:
Golf bag is packaged within a hard-shell case
Golf bag is packaged within a soft-sided golf club travel bag after a limited release
has been signed
Delta is not responsible for damage noted at the time of check-in or damage due to
over-packing the bag.
6. Musical Instrument
Subject to the rules for carriage of fragile items and the other rules set forth above, Delta
may accept musical instruments or equipment provided, including case, the outside linear
dimensions do not exceed 150 inches and the weight, including case, does not exceed 165
lbs. Standard overweight, oversize and piece baggage charges or cabin seat baggage
charges apply. Passengers may check up to ten musical instruments in accordance with
Delta’s checked baggage policy, or up to four musical instruments for flights operated by a
Delta Connection carrier. Checked baggage embargoes may apply on certain routes or
dates. Musical instruments exceeding 100lbs will be subject to the overweight fee applied to
baggage weighing between 70 and 100lbs. Musical instruments exceeding 80 linear inches
will be subject to the oversize fee applied to baggage measuring between 62 and 80 linear
inches. In lieu of checking a musical instrument as checked baggage, passengers may
alternatively purchase a seat at full fare in the cabin for the musical instrument, provided it
does not exceed 165 lbs. and may be packaged or covered in a way to avoid injury to other
passengers. In the event of an aircraft downgrade where we are unable to accommodate a
purchased seat for the musical instrument, the passenger and their musical instrument will
be re-accommodated on the next available flight.
7. Scuba-Diving Equipment
One dive bag containing scuba equipment other than an empty dive tank may be accepted
as checked baggage. An empty dive tank will be accepted as checked baggage. Tanks
exceeding 100 lbs or 115 linear inches are not allowed. Standard baggage allowance and
fees based on travel region apply. Scuba equipment weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged
the applicable excess weight fee. If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height)
exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm), the item will not be accepted. Items in excess of
baggage allowance will be subject to additional or overweight baggage fees. Scuba tanks
exceed 100 lbs. (46 kg) or 115 linear inches (length + width + height) (292 cm) are not
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 47 of 63
allowed.
8. Shooting Equipment (Sporting Firearms)
Items of shooting equipment will be accepted as checked baggage only subject to the
conditions and charges specified below.
 a) Shooting Equipment Defined
One item of shooting equipment is defined as:
• one bow and quiver of arrows and maintenance kit enclosed in a case or container of
sufficient strength to protect the bow and quiver from accidental damage
• one gun case containing up to 4 rifles/shotguns/shooting material/tools
• one gun case containing up to 5 rifles/one scope/tools
 b) Conditions of Acceptance
Firearms must be unloaded and packed in a locked, hard side case with a key or
combination in possession of the passenger only. Small arms ammunition must be packed
in the manufacturer's original package or securely packed in fiber, wood, or metal boxes, or
other packaging specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. Ammunition
with explosive or incendiary projectiles, gun powder, propellant charges for muzzle loading
firearms such as Pyrodex, and black powder will not be accepted. Ammunition exceeding 5
kg. (11 lb.) gross weight per passenger will not be accepted and may not be combined into
one or more packages. For transportation via Delta flights operated by SkyWest, the
maximum amount of ammunition accepted is 10 lbs. Ammunition and gun powder will not
be accepted as carry-on baggage.
 c) Compliance with Applicable Law
It is the passenger’s sole responsibility to comply with government laws, regulations, or
restrictions dealing with the possession or prohibition of firearms or other dangerous items.
Disclosure of checking a firearm or prohibited item must be made at the first point of contact
with a Delta representative and prior to the security checkpoint.
 d) Charges
Each item of shooting equipment will be included in determining the free baggage
allowance, and when in excess, each item is charged an excess baggage charge of
USD150/CAD180 each way.
 9. Ski/Snowboard Equipment
Items of skiing/snowboard equipment may be accepted as checked baggage. Standard
baggage allowance and fees based on travel region apply. One item of skiing equipment is
defined as one pair of skis/ski poles or one snowboard, and one boot bag. The combined
weight of the ski/snowboard bag and the boot bag may not exceed 50lb or excess weight
charges will apply. If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 115
linear inches (292 cm), the item will not be accepted. Items in excess of baggage
allowance will be subject to additional or overweight baggage fees.
10. Surfboards/Boogie Boards/Skimboards
Surfboards/boogie boards/skimboards must be checked in a case designed to protect
them. If not presented in an appropriate protective case, the item will be accepted only if
the passenger executes a Limited Liability Release for fragile items as set forth
above. Standard baggage allowance and fees based on travel region apply. Boogie or
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 48 of 63
skim boards weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged the applicable excess weight fee. If the
outside linear dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm), the
item will not be accepted. Items in excess of baggage allowance will be subject to additional
or overweight baggage fees. Surfboards weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged the
applicable excess weight fee. If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height)
exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm), the item will not be accepted. Items in excess of
baggage allowance will be subject to additional or overweight baggage fees. Surfboards
are limited to two (2) boards per container. Between Honolulu and Maui, there is a $20
USD/CAD fee. Delta Connection carrier surfboard acceptance and charges may vary.
Surfboards over 72 inches in length are not allowed on Delta Connection carrier flights.
 11. Windsurfing Equipment
Windsurfing equipment consisting of up to two (2) windsurfing boards with a wooden boom,
and one mast and sail contained in one bag will be accepted on most Delta-operated flights,
subject to the rules governing acceptance of fragile items set forth above. Standard
baggage allowance and fees based on travel region apply. Windsurfing boards weighing
over 50 lbs. will be charged the applicable excess weight fee. If the outside linear
dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 115 linear inches (292 cm), the item will not be
accepted. Items in excess of baggage allowance will be subject to additional or overweight
baggage fees. Between Honolulu and Maui, there is a $20 USD/CAD fee. Boards are
allowed up to two boards per bag. Windsurfing equipment will not be accepted for
transportation on MD-80 aircraft or on aircraft operated by Delta Connection carriers.
12. Javelin Equipment
Javelins are allowed except for travel to/from/via Dublin (DUB) or Amsterdam (AMS).
Length of the javelin cannot exceed 120 inches. Standard baggage allowance and fees
based on travel region apply. Javelins weighing over 50 lbs. will be charged the applicable
excess weight fee. If the outside linear dimensions (length + width + height) exceed 120
linear inches (305 cm), the item will not be accepted. Items in excess of baggage allowance
will be subject to additional or overweight baggage fees.
I. Governing Rules for Codeshare Flights
For codeshare services, each customer will be entitled to the free baggage allowance and
charged the excess baggage charges (when applicable) of the Marketing Carrier,
regardless of who the Operating Carrier is. If the need arises for operational or safety
related reasons, the Operating Carrier may require that carry-on baggage be checked at the
gate, but no additional excess baggage charges will apply.
RULE 191: LIABILITY OF CARRIERS
For the purpose of International Carriage governed by the Montreal Convention, the Liability rules set out in
the Montreal Convention are fully incorporated herein and shall supersede and prevail over any provisions
of this tariff which may be inconsistent with those rules. To the extent that they are not inconsistent with the
foregoing, the following provisions shall apply:
A) SUCCESSIVE CARRIERS- Carriage to be performed under one ticket or under a ticket and any
 conjunction ticket issued in connection therewith by several successive carriers is regarded as a single
 operation.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 49 of 63
B) LAWS AND PROVISIONS APPLICABLE
1) The Carrier shall be liable under Article 17 of the Warsaw Convention or Montreal Convention,
whichever may apply, for recoverable compensatory damages sustained in the case of death or bodily
injury of a passenger, as provided in the following paragraphs:
a) The Carrier shall not be able to exclude or limit its liability for damages not exceeding 128,821
Special Drawing Rights for each passenger.
b) The Carrier shall not be liable for damages to the extent that they exceed 128,821 Special
Drawing Rights for each passenger if the Carrier proves that:
1) such damage was not due to the negligence or other wrongful act or omission of the Carrier
or its servants or agents; or
2) such damage was solely due to the negligence or other wrongful act or omission of a third
party.
c) The Carrier reserves all other defenses and limitations available under the Warsaw Convention
or the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply, to such claims including, but not limited to,
the exoneration defense of Article 21 of the Warsaw Convention and Article 20 of the Montreal
Convention except that the Carrier shall not invoke Articles 20 and 22(1) of the Warsaw
Convention in a manner inconsistent with paragraphs (1) and (2) hereof.
d) With respect to third parties, the Carrier reserves all rights of recourse against any other person,
including without limitation, rights of contribution and indemnity.
e) The Carrier agrees that, subject to applicable law, recoverable compensatory damages for such
claims may be determined by reference to the laws of the country of the domicile or country of
permanent residence of the passenger.
2) In cases of personal injury or death, the Carrier shall make an advance payment where the Carrier
determines it is necessary to meet the immediate economic needs of, and hardship suffered by, a
passenger as provided in the following paragraphs:
a) Unless a dispute arises over the identity of the person to whom an advance payment shall be
made, the Carrier shall, without delay, make the advance payment to the passenger in an
amount or amounts determined by the Carrier in its sole discretion. In the event of death of a
passenger, the amount of the advance payment shall not be less than 16,000 Special Drawing
Rights, which shall be paid to a representative of the passenger’s next of kin eligible to receive
such advance payment as determined by the Carrier in its sole discretion.
b) The Carrier shall make the advance payment as an advance against the Carrier’s liability under
the Warsaw Convention, or the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply. An advance
payment shall not constitute recognition of liability. An advance payment shall be offset against,
or deducted from the payment of, any settlement or judgment with respect to any claim for
compensation on behalf of the passenger.
c) The Carrier, in making an advance payment, does not waive any rights, defenses, or limitations
available under the Warsaw Convention, or the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply, to
any claim on behalf of the passenger, nor shall acceptance of an advance payment constitute a
release of any claim, whatsoever, by any person.
d) The Carrier, in making an advance payment, preserves its right to seek contribution or
indemnity from any other person for such payment, which shall not be deemed to be voluntary
contribution or contractual payment on the part of the Carrier.
e) The Carrier may recover an advance payment from any person where it is proven that the
Carrier is not liable for any damage sustained by the passenger, or where it is proven that the
person was not entitled to receive the payment, or where and to the extent that it is proven that
the person who received the advance payment caused, or contributed to, the damage.
3) The Carrier shall be liable for damage occasioned by delay in the carriage of passengers by air, as
 provided in the following paragraphs:
a) The Carrier shall not be liable if it proves that it and its servants and agents took all measures
that could reasonably be required to avoid the damage, or that it was impossible for it or them to
take such measures.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 50 of 63
b) Airport, air traffic control, security, and other facilities or personnel, whether public or private, not
under the control and direction of the Carrier are not servants or agents of the Carrier, and the
Carrier is not liable to the extent the delay is caused by these kinds of facilities or personnel.
c) Damages occasioned by delay are subject to the terms, limitations and defenses set forth in the
Warsaw Convention and the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply. They include
foreseeable compensatory damages sustained by a passenger and do not include mental injury
damages.
d) The Carrier reserves all defenses and limitations available under the Warsaw Convention or the
Montreal Convention, whichever may apply, to claims for damage occasioned by delay,
including, but not limited to, the exoneration defense of Article 21 of the Warsaw Convention
and Article 20 of the Montreal Convention. Under the Montreal Convention, the liability of the
Carrier for damage caused by delay is limited to 5,346 Special Drawing Rights per passenger.
The limits of liability shall not apply in cases described in Article 25 of the Warsaw Convention
or Article 22(5) of the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply.
4) The Carrier is liable for damages sustained in the case of destruction or loss of, damage to, or delay
 of checked and unchecked baggage, as provided in the following paragraphs:
a) Except as provided below, the liability of the Carrier is limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights
for each passenger in the case of destruction, loss, damage, or delay of baggage, whether
checked or unchecked, under the Warsaw Convention or the Montreal Convention, whichever
may apply. Unless the passenger proves otherwise:
1) all baggage checked by a passenger shall be considered to be the property of that
passenger;
2) a particular piece of baggage, checked or unchecked, shall not be considered to be
the property of more than one passenger; and
3) unchecked baggage, including personal items, shall be considered to be the
property of the passenger in possession of the baggage at the time of embarkation.
b) Normal carrier limit of liability will be waived for substantiated claims involving loss, damage, or
delay in delivery to mobility aids such as wheelchairs, walkers, crutches, scooters and other
mobility aid, when such items have been accepted into the care of the carrier as checked
baggage or otherwise. The liability of carrier for substantiated claims involving the loss of,
damage to, or delay in delivery of mobility aids, when such items have been accepted as
checked baggage or otherwise, is based on the cost of the repair or replacement value of the
mobility aid. For damaged or delayed wheelchairs, walkers, crutches, scooters and other
mobility aids if a damaged aid can be repaired, carrier will arrange, at its expense, for the
prompt and adequate repair of the aid and for its return to the passenger as soon as
reasonably possible. Carrier will use reasonable efforts to obtain a temporary without undue
delay while the passenger's mobility aid is being repaired or returned.
c) In the case of unchecked baggage, the Carrier is liable only to the extent the damage resulted
from its fault, or that of its servants or agents.
d) The Carrier is not liable for destruction, loss, damage, or delay of baggage not in the charge of
the Carrier, including baggage undergoing security inspections or measures not under the
control and direction of the Carrier.
e) The Carrier reserves all defenses and limitations available under the Warsaw Convention and
the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply to such claims including, but not limited to, the
defense of Article 20 of the Warsaw Convention and Article 19 of the Montreal Convention, and
the exoneration defense of Article 21 of the Warsaw Convention and Article 20 of the Montreal
Convention, except that the Carrier shall not invoke Article 22(2) and (3) of the Warsaw
Convention in a manner inconsistent with paragraph 4(a) hereof. The limits of liability shall not
apply in cases described in Article 25 of the Warsaw Convention or Article 22(5) of the
Montreal Convention, whichever may apply.
5) Under the Warsaw Convention and the Montreal Convention, whichever may apply, an action for
damages must be brought within two years, and a complaint must be made to the carrier within
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 51 of 63
seven calendar days in the case of damage to baggage, and 21 calendar days in the case of delay
thereof.
C) LIMITATION OF LIABILITY- Except as the applicable Convention or other law may otherwise require:
1) Carrier is not liable for any death, injury, delay, loss, or other damage of whatsoever nature
(hereinafter in this tariff collectively referred to as "damage") to passengers or unchecked baggage
arising out of or in connection with carriage or other services performed by carrier incidental thereto,
unless such damage is caused by the negligence of carrier. Assistance rendered to the passenger
by carrier's employees in loading, unloading, or transshipping baggage shall be considered as
gratuitous service to the passenger. Carrier is not liable for damage to such unchecked baggage
incurred during, or as a result of such service, irrespective of the negligence of carrier's employees.
2) Carrier is not liable for any damage directly and solely arising out of its compliance with any laws,
government regulations, orders, or requirements or from failure of passenger to comply with same,
or out of any cause beyond carrier's control.
3) Carrier is not to be liable for damage to a passenger's baggage caused by property contained in the
passenger's baggage. Any passenger whose property caused damage to another passenger's
baggage or to the property of carrier shall indemnify carrier for all losses and expenses incurred by
carrier as a result thereof.
4) Delta assumes no liability for preexisting damage, including minor cuts, scratches, and broken
zippers as a result of over packing, or for wear and tear resulting from ordinary handling of baggage.
5) When carrier has exercised the ordinary standard of care, it shall not be liable for spoilage resulting
from delay in delivery of any perishables described in Rule 190 (BAGGAGE REGULATIONS), nor
for damage to, or damage caused by, fragile articles described in Rule 190 which are unsuitably
packed and which are included in a passenger's checked baggage without carrier's knowledge.
Carrier shall not be liable for the damage, or delay in delivery of a passenger's checked baggage
and property accepted pursuant to the execution of a release as set forth in Rule 190, to the extent
that such release relieves carrier of liability.
6) Carrier may refuse to accept any articles that do not constitute baggage as such term is defined
herein, but if delivered to and received by carrier, such articles shall be deemed to be within the
baggage valuation and limit of liability, and shall be subject to the published rates and charges of
carrier.
7)
a) Liability of carrier for damages shall be limited to occurrences on its own line, except in the case
of checked baggage as to which the passenger also has a right of action against the first or last
carrier.
b) A carrier issuing a ticket or checking baggage for carriage over the lines of another carrier does
so only as agent.
c) Carrier shall not be liable for death or injury of a passenger not occurring on its own line.
8) Carrier shall not be liable in any event for any consequential or special damage arising from
carriage subject to this tariff, whether or not carrier had knowledge that such damages might be
incurred.
9) Any exclusion or limitation of liability of carrier under this tariff or the ticket shall apply to agents,
servants, or representatives of the carrier acting within the scope of their employment and also to
any person whose aircraft is used by the carrier and its agents, servants or representatives acting
within the scope of their employment.
10) The owner of a pet shall be responsible for compliance with all governmental regulations and
restrictions, including furnishing valid health and rabies vaccination certificates when required.
Carrier will not be liable for loss or expense due to the passenger’s failure to comply with this
provision, and carrier will not be responsible if any pet is refused passage into or through any
country, state, or territory.
D) TIME LIMITATIONS ON CLAIMS AND ACTIONS
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 52 of 63
1) No action shall lie in the case of damage to baggage unless the person entitled to delivery
complains to the carrier forthwith after the discovery of the damage, and, at the latest, within seven
days from the date of receipt; and in the case of delay, or loss, complaint must be made at the latest
within 21 days from the date on which the baggage has been placed at his disposal (in the case of
delay), or should have been placed at his disposal (in the case of loss). Every complaint must be
made in writing and dispatched within the time aforesaid. Where carriage is not "international
carriage" as defined in the applicable Convention, failure to give notice shall not be a bar to suit
where claimant proves that
a) it was not reasonably possible for him to give such notice, or
b) that notice was not given due to fraud on the part of carrier, or
c) the management of carrier had knowledge of damage to passenger's baggage.
2) Any right to damages against carrier shall be extinguished unless an action is brought within two
years reckoned from the date of arrival at the destination, or from the date on which the aircraft
ought to have arrived, or from the date on which the carriage stopped.
E) OVERRIDING LAW- Insofar as any provision contained or referred to in the ticket or in this tariff may be
contrary to a law, government regulation, order or requirement which severally cannot be waived by
agreement of the parties, such provisions shall remain applicable and be considered as part of the
contract of carriage to the extent only that such provision is not contrary thereto. The invalidity of any
provision shall not affect any other part.
F) MODIFICATION AND WAIVER- No agent, servant, or representative of carrier has authority to alter,
modify, or waive any provisions of the contract of carriage or this tariff.
G) GRATUITOUS TRANSPORTATION
1) Gratuitous transportation by carrier of persons as hereinafter described shall be governed by all the
 provisions of this rule, except subparagraph (2) below and by all other applicable rules of this tariff.
a) Transportation of persons injured in aircraft accidents on the lines of carrier and physicians and
nurses attending such persons.
b)Transportation of persons, the object of which is that of providing relief in general epidemics,
pestilence or other calamitous visitation.
c)Transportation of persons, which is required by and authorized pursuant to Part 223 of the
Economic Regulations of the Department of Transportation of the United States of America.
d) Transportation of persons which is subject to the Convention.
e) Transportation of officers, employees and servants of carrier traveling in the course of their
employment and in the furtherance of carrier's business.
2) Except in respect of gratuitous transportation of persons described in paragraph (G) (1) above,
carrier in furnishing gratuitous transportation shall not be liable (the provisions of Rule 55(B) and (C)
to the contrary notwithstanding) under any circumstances whether of its own negligence or that of its
officers, agents, representatives or employees, or otherwise, and the person using such free
transportation on behalf of himself, his heirs, legal representative, defendants and other parties in
interest, and their representatives, assignees, releases and agrees to indemnify carrier, its officers,
agents, representatives and employees from all liability (including cost and expenses), for any and
all delay, and for failure to complete passage, and from any and all loss or damage to the property
of such person.
3) Except in respect of gratuitous transportation of persons described in paragraph (G)(1) above,
carrier in furnishing gratuitous transportation shall not be liable under any circumstances whether of
its own negligence or that of its officers, agents, representatives or employees, or otherwise, and
the person using such free transportation, on behalf of himself, his heirs, legal representatives,
defendants and other parties in interest, and their representatives, assignees, releases and agrees
to indemnify Carrier, its officers, agents, representatives and employees from all liability (including
cost and expenses) for any and all death or injury, to such person (See NOTE below).
NOTE: Rules stating any limitation on, or conditions relating to, the liability of carriers for personal
injury or death are not permitted to be included in tariffs filed pursuant to the laws of the
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 53 of 63
United States, except to the extent provided in Rule 55 (B)(1). Insofar as this rule states any
such limitation or condition it is included herein; except to the extent provided in Rule 55
(B)(1), as part of the tariff filed with governments other than the United States and not as part
of this tariff filed with the Department of Transportation of the United States.
RULE 240: FLIGHT DELAYS/CANCELLATIONS
A. Flight Schedules are Not Guaranteed
Delta will exercise reasonable efforts to carry passengers and their baggage according to
Delta’s published schedules and the schedule reflected on the passenger’s ticket, but
published schedules, flight times, aircraft type, seat assignments, and similar details
reflected in the ticket or Delta’s published schedules are not guaranteed and form no part of
this contract. Delta may substitute alternate carriers or aircraft, delay or cancel flights,
change seat assignments, and alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket at any time.
Schedules are subject to change without notice. Except as stated in this rule and as
provided in Rule 191, Delta will have no liability for making connections, failing to operate
any flight according to schedule, changing the schedule for any flight, changing seat
assignments or aircraft types, or revising the routings by which Delta carries the passenger
from the ticketed origin to destination.
B. Delta’s Liability in the Event of Schedule Changes, Delays and Flight Cancellations
In the event of flight cancellation, diversion, delays of greater than 120 minutes, or delays
that will cause a passenger to miss connections, Delta will (at passenger’s request) cancel
the remaining ticket and refund the unused portion of the ticket and unused ancillary fees in
the original form of payment in accordance with Rule 260 of these conditions of carriage. If
the passenger does not request a refund and cancellation of the ticket, Delta will transport
the passenger to the destination on Delta’s next flight on which seats are available in the
class of service originally purchased. At Delta’s sole discretion and if acceptable to the
passenger, Delta may arrange for the passenger to travel on another carrier or via ground
transportation. If acceptable to the passenger, Delta will provide transportation in a lower
class of service, in which case the passenger may be entitled to a partial refund. If space on
the next available flight is available only in a higher class of service than purchased, Delta
will transport the passenger on the flight, although Delta reserves the right to upgrade other
passengers on the flight according to its upgrade priority policy to make space in the class
of service originally purchased.
C. Delta’s Liability For Additional Amenities in the Event of Schedule Changes, Delays
 and Flight Cancellations
Except as provided above, Delta shall have no liability if the flight cancellation, diversion or
delay was due to force majeure. As used in this rule, “force majeure” means actual,
threatened or reported:
(1) Weather conditions or acts of God
(2) Riots, civil unrest, embargoes, war, hostilities, or unsettled international conditions
(3) Strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, lockout, or any other labor-related dispute
(4) Government regulation, demand, directive or requirement
(5) Shortages of labor, fuel, or facilities
(6) Any other condition beyond Delta’s control or any fact not reasonably foreseen by Delta
However, when for reasons other than force majeure, a passenger’s travel is interrupted for
greater than 4 hours after the scheduled departure time as a result of flight cancellation or
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 54 of 63
delay on the date of travel Delta will provide the passenger with the following additional
amenities during the delay:
(a) Hotels
If overnight accommodations are available at Delta contracted facilities, Delta will provide
the passenger with a voucher for one night‘s lodging when the delay is during the period of
10:00 pm to 6:00 am. Delta will provide free public ground transportation to the hotel if the
hotel does not offer such service. If accommodations are not available, Delta will provide the
passenger with a voucher that may be applied to future travel on Delta equal in value to the
contracted hotel rate, up to $100 CAD.
(b) Ground Transportation
In lieu of lodging or other amenities, if a passenger’s flight is diverted to an alternative
airport, Delta will furnish ground transportation to the destination airport if the destination on
the ticket and the diverted airport destination are within the following city groups:
San Francisco, CA (SFO)/ Oakland, CA (OAK)/ San Jose, CA (SJC)
Los Angeles, CA (LAX)/ Long Beach, CA (LGB)/ Ontario, CA (ONT)/ Santa Ana, CA (SNA)
Denver, CO (DEN)/ Colorado Springs (COS)
O’Hare – Chicago, IL (ORD)/ Midway – Chicago, IL (MDW)
Dallas-Ft. Worth, TX (DFW)/ Dallas, TX Love Field (DAL)
Bush Intercontinental – Houston, TX (IAH)/ Hobby – Houston, TX (HOU)
 Fort Lauderdale, FL (FLL)/ Miami, FL (MIA)/ West Palm Beach, FL (PBI)
Baltimore, MD (BWI)/ National – Washington, DC (DCA)/ Dulles – Washington, DC (IAD)
Newark, NJ (EWR)/ LaGuardia – New York, NY (LGA)/ John F. Kennedy – New York, NY
(JFK)
Orlando, FL (MCO)/ Tampa, FL (TPA)/ Daytona Beach, FL (DAB)/ Melbourne, FL (MLB)
(c) Additional Amenities
Delta will provide such additional amenities as are necessary to maintain the safety and/or
welfare of customers with special needs such as unaccompanied children and customers
with disabilities. Such amenities will be furnished consistent with special needs and/or
circumstances.
 D. Extended Tarmac Delays – Codeshare Services
In the event of extended tarmac delays on flights operated by a Delta codeshare partner,
the contingency plan for lengthy tarmac delays of the operating carrier will apply.
RULE 245: DENIED BOARDING COMPENSATION
A) Overbooking of Flights
Because passengers with confirmed reservations on a flight sometimes fail to show, Delta
reserves the right to sell more tickets for travel on each flight than there are seats available on
the aircraft. In some cases, this may result in a flight in which Delta cannot accommodate one or
more passengers with confirmed reservations (an “oversold flight”). Delta may deny boarding to
passengers with confirmed reservations on an oversold flight as set forth in this rule. The rights
of passengers who are denied boarding shall be governed by this rule.
B) Request For Volunteers
Before denying boarding to any passenger holding a confirmed reservation on an oversold
flight, Delta will ask other passengers on the flight to voluntarily give up their seat in exchange
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 55 of 63
for compensation in an amount and form to be determined by Delta in its sole discretion. If a
sufficient number of volunteers agree to give up their seats in response to Delta’s offer, then no
passenger with a confirmed reservation will be involuntarily denied boarding due to the oversale
of the flight. If there are more volunteers than required, selection of the volunteer(s) to receive
compensation shall be subject to Delta’s sole discretion.
C) Involuntary Denied Boarding
If an insufficient number of passengers volunteer to give up their seats in response to Delta’s
offer, Delta may involuntarily deny boarding to one or more passengers on the oversold flight
according to the following boarding priority rules:
1) Passengers Holding Tickets for Travel in Premium Cabin, SkyMiles members identified
with a Diamond Medallion (“DM”), Platinum Medallion (“PM”), or Gold Medallion (“GM”)
elite-status designation, and passengers holding tickets purchased under a DL
corporate travel agreement.
Passengers holding tickets for confirmed space in the First or Business class cabin,
SkyMiles members identified with a DM, PM, or GM elite-status designation, and
passengers holding tickets purchased under a DL corporate travel agreement will be
accommodated before other passengers holding tickets and/or boarding passes for
confirmed space in the coach cabin.
2) Passengers With Boarding Passes
Subject to the terms set forth in Rule 245(c )(1) and (4), passengers holding boarding
passes who check in and present themselves at the departure gate in compliance with
Rule 135(c) will be accommodated before passengers traveling in the same cabin who
have not been issued boarding passes or who fail to comply with applicable check-in
requirements. Subject to the availability of seats on the aircraft, boarding passes may
be obtained by passengers who hold tickets for confirmed reserved space in the
following manner:
a) for passengers traveling on electronic tickets, through the Online Check-in feature
on Delta.com within 24 hours of scheduled departure
b) for passengers traveling on electronic tickets, through a Delta airport kiosk within
four hours of scheduled departure
c) from a Delta airport ticket counter and/or the check-in desk located in the departure
area.
3) Passengers Without Boarding Passes
Passengers, who are not governed by Rule 245(c)(1) or (4), with confirmed reservations
who have not been issued a boarding pass and present themselves at the departure
gate in compliance with rule 135(c) will be accommodated according to the following
priority rules:
a) Passengers who have been rebooked to the present flight as a result of an irregular
operation (e.g., delay, cancellation) of a previously booked flight.
b) SkyMiles members identified with a Silver Medallion (“FO”) elite-status designation.
c) Passengers with a SkyTeam Elite or Elite Plus status.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 56 of 63
d) Passengers without any elite-status designation.
 Within each of the foregoing groups, passengers are prioritized first by class of service
 and then by time of check-in.
4) Special Needs Passengers
Because of the special needs of passengers with disabilities, unaccompanied children,
and aged or infirm passengers, and active members of the U.S. Armed Forces on travel
orders, Delta reserves the right to accommodate such passengers without regard to the
boarding priorities established by this provision.
D) Transportation For Passengers Denied Boarding
Delta will provide transportation to passengers who volunteer to relinquish their seats or who
are denied boarding involuntarily due to the oversale of a flight as follows:
1) Next Available Flight
Delta will transport the passenger on its next flight on which space is available to the
passenger’s next stopover, or if none, to the passenger’s destination, at no additional cost
to the passenger.
2) Transportation on Other Airlines
At Delta’s sole discretion, Delta may instead arrange for transportation on any other carrier
or combination of carriers to the passenger’s next stopover, or if none, to the passenger’s
destination, at no additional cost to the passenger.
3) Overnight Stay Required
If the transportation provided to a passenger pursuant to this section requires that the
passenger stay overnight before continuing his/her travel, Delta will provide hotel
accommodations to the passenger at no additional cost. If hotel accommodations are
unavailable, Delta will compensate the passenger with a credit voucher valid for future
purchases from Delta in an amount commensurate in value with the local average
contracted hotel rate up to $100 CAD, to be determined by Delta.
E) Compensation For Involuntary Denied Boarding
When a passenger with a confirmed reservation is involuntarily denied boarding on an oversold
flight pursuant to this rule, Delta’s sole liability to the passenger shall be to provide alternative
transportation as provided in paragraph D, above, and to pay denied boarding compensation, if
applicable, pursuant to the terms and conditions of this rule.
1) Conditions For Payment of Involuntary Denied Boarding Compensation
The passenger shall not be entitled to any compensation for involuntary denied boarding if:
a) Passenger’s Failure to Comply with Contract of Carriage
The passenger has not complied fully with Delta’s contract of carriage or tariff
provisions regarding ticketing, reconfirmation, check-in, or acceptability for
transportation
b) Substitution of Equipment
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 57 of 63
The flight for which the passenger holds confirmed space is unable to accommodate
that passenger because of substitution of equipment of lesser capacity when required
by operational or safety reasons; or, on an aircraft with a designed passenger capacity
of 60 or fewer seats, the flight for which the passenger holds confirmed reserved space
is unable to accommodate that passenger due to weight/balance restrictions when
required by operational or safety reasons.
c) Carriage in Alternative Cabin
Delta offers to accommodate the passenger in a section of the aircraft other than that
specified on his/her ticket at no extra charge; provided however that if a passenger is
seated in a section for which a lower fare applies, the passenger will be entitled to a
refund of the difference in fare.
d) Alternative Transportation
Delta arranges comparable air transportation, or other transportation used by the
passenger, at no extra cost to the passenger, that at the time such arrangements are
made is scheduled to arrive at the passenger’s next stopover, or, if none, final
destination within one hour after the planned arrival time of the passenger’s original
flight or flights.
F) Amount of Involuntary Denied Boarding Compensation
If all conditions for compensation are met, then Delta shall pay compensation to passengers
involuntarily denied boarding in an amount to be calculated as follows:
1) When Delta arranges Qualifying Alternative Transportation
If Delta arranges Qualifying Alternative Transportation, then Delta will pay denied boarding
compensation in an amount equal to 200% of the fare (including any surcharges and air
transportation taxes) to the passenger’s next stopover, or if none, to his/her final destination,
but no more than USD 675.00. Qualifying Alternative Transportation means comparable air
transportation, or other transportation used by the passenger, at no extra cost to the
passenger, that at the time such arrangements are made is scheduled to arrive at the
passenger’s next stopover, or, if none, final destination within two hours after the planned
arrival time of the passenger’s original flight or flights.
2) Where Delta cannot arrange Qualifying Alternative Transportation
If Delta cannot arrange Qualifying Alternative Transportation, then Delta will pay denied
boarding compensation in an amount equal to 400% of the fare (including any surcharges
and air transportation taxes) to the passenger’s next stopover, or if none, to his/her final
destination, but no more than USD 1350.00.
G) Time of Payment for Involuntary Denied Boarding Compensation
If all conditions for compensation are met, Delta will pay any involuntary denied boarding due
under this Rule on the day and at the place where the denial of boarding occurred, in cash or
immediately negotiable check; provided, however, that if the alternative transportation arranged
for the passenger’s convenience departs before the payment can be made to the passenger,
then payment will be made by mail or other means within 24 hours after the denied boarding
occurs.
RULE 255: REROUTING
I. General Provisions
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 58 of 63
A. Fare Applicable To Rerouting Or Change In Destination
1. Unless otherwise specified in the fare rule, a passenger may change the routing,
destination, carrier(s), class of service, or dates of travel specified on an unused ticket or
flight coupon(s) in accordance with paragraph 2) below, provided that, after transportation
has commenced, a one-way ticket will not be converted into a round-trip, circle-trip or openjaw trip ticket.
2. Except as otherwise provided in Rule 240 (flight delays/cancellations), when a rerouting or
change in ultimate destination is made at passenger's request prior to arrival at the ultimate
destination named on the original ticket, the fares and charges applicable shall be the
applicable fare and charges for the entire revised itinerary in effect on the date that the
rerouting or change in ultimate destination is entered on the passenger's new ticket.
3. See Rule 105 (ticket validity) in this tariff for validity of voluntarily exchanged/reissued
tickets.
B. Fare Applicable To Upgrading Class Of Service While In Flight
When a passenger moves from one class of service to another while in flight, an additional
collection will be made in an amount equal to the difference between:
1. The one-way fare from passenger's point of origin on such flight to the last scheduled stop
prior to the passenger's change in class of service, applicable to the class of service used,
plus the one-way fare from such stop to the passenger's destination on such flight,
applicable to transportation in the class of service to which the passenger is moving, and
2. The fare paid for transportation from the passenger's origin to destination on such flight.
NOTE: When the amount described in 1. above is less than the amount described in 2.
above, no additional collection will be made. The acceptance of such passenger in the class
of service to which he/she is moving for travel beyond the next scheduled stopping point in
the flight will be subject to the availability of space. Discounts will not apply.
C. Notwithstanding the provisions of this rule, Delta will not accept for any purposes under this rule,
passenger tickets or related transportation documents issued by any carrier which is in
substantial default of its interline obligations or which voluntarily or involuntarily has become the
subject of bankruptcy proceeding ("The Defaulting Carrier").
EXCEPTION: Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, tickets issued by the defaulting
carrier or its sales agent will be reissued/rerouted only between the points named on the original
ticket that are served by Delta, provided that such tickets were issued by such defaulting carrier
or sales agent in either's capacity as an agent for Delta and specified transportation via Delta.
When tickets are accepted, no adjustments in fare will be made that would require Delta to
refund money to the passenger.
II. Ticket reissue procedures
-Unless otherwise specified in a fare rule, the following procedures will apply to DL ticket
 reissues.
 For nonrefundable fares:
- If the price of the new ticket is lower than the ticket being reissued, the difference in
the ticket price will be provided to the passenger in the form of a non-refundable Delta
travel voucher at the time of reissue.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 59 of 63
- If the price of the new ticket is equal to or higher than the ticket being reissued, any
difference in fare will be collected at the time of reissue.
 For refundable fares:
- If the price of the new ticket is lower than the ticket being reissued, any difference
 In fare will be refunded to the original form of payment at the time of reissue.
- If the price of the new ticket is higher than the ticket being reissued, the
 difference in fare will be collected at the time of reissue.
-Flights must be rebooked and the ticket reissued at the time of the change.
A. Unused tickets
1. When making changes to an unused ticket, Delta will cancel the itinerary and start over,
issuing a new ticket using current fares subject to all applicable fare rules. The value of
the original ticket, may be applied toward the purchase of the new ticket.
B. Partially Used Tickets
1. When making changes to partially used tickets, Delta will apply one of the following
procedures resulting in the lowest fare:
a. Reprice the itinerary, attempting to keep fares of the fully flown fare
components, and replacing the unflown fare components using current fares. No
changes are permitted to the fare break points of the fully flown fare components.
Delta will validate all fare rules at the time of reissue. The new ticket may be a lower
or equal or higher value than the previous ticket.
 -OR-
 b. Issue a new ticket using current fares and validating all fare rules at the time of
reissue. If the original fare is nonrefundable, the Carrier will apply the remaining
value for the unflown Segments of the partially used ticket, toward the purchase of a
new ticket. For refundable fares, Delta will apply the remaining value from the
partially used ticket, if any, toward the purchase of a new ticket.

III. Same Day Confirm Reissue Procedures
- Unless otherwise specified in the fare rules, a passenger holding a non-refundable ticket
may change to another flight to the same destination operated by Delta or a Delta
Connection carrier on the same day subject to the policies set forth at
https://www.delta.com/content/www/en_US/traveling-with-us/ticket-changesrefunds/samedaytravel-changes.html and incorporated herein.
RULE 260: INVOLUNTARY REFUNDS
A) The amount the carrier will refund upon surrender of the unused portion of the passenger's
tickets pursuant to rules 35 (refusal to transport), 50 (acceptance of children), or 240 (flight
delays/cancellations) will be:
1) If no portion of the ticket has been used, the refund will be an amount equal to the fare paid.
2) If a portion of the ticket has been used and termination (interruption) occurs:
a) At A Fare Breakpoint - The refund will be an amount equal to the fare paid for the
unused transportation from the point of termination (interruption) to the destination or
next stopover point named on the ticket, or to a point at which transportation is to be
resumed.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 60 of 63
b) Within A Fare Component - The refund will be an amount equal to the carrier’s
published one way fare for the same class of service, or 50% of the published
comparable round trip fare, from the point of termination/interruption to the destination,
or next stopover point named on the ticket, or to the point at which transportation is to
be resumed. If the carrier does not publish comparable fares between such points, the
refund will be an amount equal to any carrier’s direct one way unrestricted fare, less the
same rate of discount that was applied in computing the original fare.
Exception: Delta will make no refund when the destination designated on the
passenger’s ticket is a point in column (A) and the flight on which the passenger is
being transported terminates at the corresponding point in Column (B)
 Column A Column B
 BALTIMORE, MD WASHINGTON, DC (DCA)
 BALTIMORE, MD WASHINGTON, DC (IAD)
 BURBANK, CA LOS ANGELES, CA
 BURBANK, CA ONTARIO, CA
 BURBANK, CA SANTA ANA, CA
 CHICAGO, IL (MDW) CHICAGO, IL (ORD)
 CHICAGO, IL (ORD) CHICAGO IL (MDW)
 FT. LAUDERDALE, FL MIAMI, FL (MIA)
 HOUSTON, TX (HOU) HOUSTON, TX (IAH)
 HOUSTON, TX (IAH) HOUSTON, TX (HOU)
 LOS ANGELES, CA BURBANK, CA
 LOS ANGELES, CA ONTARIO, CA
 LOS ANGELES, CA SANTA ANA, CA
 MIAMI, FL FT. LAUDERDALE, FL
 NEW YORK, NY (JFK/LGA) NEWARK, NJ (EWR)
 NEW YORK, NY (JFK) NEW YORK, NY (LGA)
 NEW YORK, NY (LGA) NEW YORK, NY (JFK)
 NEWARK, NJ (EWR) NEW YORK, NY (JFK/LGA)
 OAKLAND, CA SAN FRANCISCO, CA
 OAKLAND, CA SAN JOSE, CA
 ONTARIO, CA BURBANK, CA
 ONTARIO, CA LOS ANGELES, CA
 ONTARIO, CA SANTA ANA, CA
 SAN FRANCISCO, CA OAKLAND, CA
 SAN FRANCISCO, CA SAN JOSE, CA
 SAN JOSE, CA OAKLAND, CA
 SAN JOSE, CA SAN FRANCISCO, CA
 SANTA ANA, CA BURBANK, CA
 SANTA ANA, CA LOS ANGELES, CA
 SANTA ANA, CA ONTARIO, CA
 WASHINGTON, DC (IAD) BALTIMORE, MD
 WASHINGTON, DC (IAD) WASHINGTON, DC (DCA)
 WASHINGTON, DC (DCA) BALTIMORE, MD
 WASHINGTON, DC (DCA) WASHINGTON, DC (IAD)
B) Notwithstanding the provisions of this rule, Delta will not accept for any purposes under this rule,
passenger tickets or related transportation documents issued by any carrier which is in
substantial default of its interline obligations or which voluntarily or involuntarily has become the
subject of bankruptcy proceedings.

 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 61 of 63
RULE 270: VOLUNTARY REFUNDS
A. Fully Refundable Tickets
If your ticket was purchased at a fare that is fully refundable in whole or part, Delta will issue a refund of the
refundable portion of your ticket at your request. You must surrender any unused portion of the ticket at the
time of the refund request. The amount of the refund will be calculated as follows:
1. If no portion of the ticket has been used, Delta will refund the total fare and all taxes, fees or
charges paid.
2. If a portion of the ticket has been used, Delta will refund the difference between the fare and
charges applicable to the ticket as issued and the fare and charges applicable to the transportation covered
by the used portion of the ticket.
B. Nonrefundable Tickets
1. General Rule
Delta will not refund any portion of a fare that is nonrefundable.
2. Refund of Taxes, Fees or Charges
Delta will refund taxes, fees or charges collected upon nonrefundable tickets for international transportation
only where required by law or where such taxes were collected in error and the passenger submits evidence
of exemption from the tax, fee or charge to Delta in connection with a timely refund request. No request for
a refund of taxes, fees or charges will be processed unless a request for the refund is received by Delta on
the written or electronic forms provided by Delta within the time limits specified by this rule.
3. Application of Unused Ticket toward Future Purchases
Delta may permit a portion of the fare paid for an unused nonrefundable ticket to be applied toward the
purchase of future travel on Delta, as set forth in the applicable fare rule and in the ticket reissue procedures
in Rule 255 Section II of this tariff.
.
4. Upgrade/Downgrade of Nonrefundable Tickets
Delta may permit passengers purchasing certain nonrefundable fares to upgrade or downgrade those tickets
after purchase, as set forth in the applicable fare rule.
5. Deceased Passengers
Notwithstanding the general rule, in the event of death of the passenger prior to the date of travel, tickets
issued at nonrefundable fares will be refunded to the deceased passengers’ estate.
6. Administrative Service Charge
Delta may charge an administrative service charge for processing any permitted changes to nonrefundable
tickets. If so, this fee will be deducted from any refunded amount or collected at the time the change is
processed.
C. Time Limit for Request Refunds
No refund will be issued on any ticket unless Delta receives a request for the refund and any unused
coupons are surrendered to Delta within one year of the original issue date of the ticket.
D. Form of Refund
Delta will issue refunds on eligible tickets as follows:
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 62 of 63
1. Tickets paid for by credit card will be refunded to the credit card account used to purchase the
ticket, typically within seven business days of Delta's initial receipt of refund request.
2. Tickets paid for by cash or check will be refunded by check issued to the person named as a
passenger on the ticket, typically within 20 business days of Delta's receipt of initial refund request.
3. Prepaid ticket advice and/or miscellaneous charge orders will be refunded to the purchaser of
the prepaid ticket advice and/or miscellaneous charge order.
4. Tickets charged under a universal air travel plan will be refunded to the subscriber against
whose account the ticket was charged.
5. Tickets issued against governmental transportation requests shall be issued as required by
applicable government regulation
E. Lost or Stolen Tickets
Delta will issue refunds on lost, fully refundable paper tickets only if a claim for refund is received by Delta
no later than one month after the expiration date of the ticket. A service charge of USD100/CAD100 per
ticket for handling a request for refund of a lost ticket/exchange order will apply, and Delta will require that
you agree, in such forms as may be prescribed by Delta, to indemnify Delta for any loss or damage which
Delta may sustain by reason of the use of the lost ticket. The amount of the refund shall be calculated as
follows:
1. If no portion of the ticket has been used, Delta will refund the fare and charges paid, less any
applicable service charges.
2. If you used a portion of the lost ticket, Delta will provide a refund as follows:
a. If you purchased a new ticket covering the same transportation as that covered by
the unused portion of the lost ticket, Delta will refund the fare and charges paid for the new ticket.
b. If you did not purchase a new ticket, Delta will refund the difference, if any, between
the fares and charges paid, and the full fare for the transportation used.
F. Refund of Interline Tickets
Notwithstanding the provisions of this rule Delta will not accept for any purposes under this rule, passenger
tickets or related transportation documents issued by any carrier which is in substantial default of its interline
obligations or which voluntarily or involuntarily has become the subject of bankruptcy proceedings.
RULE 390: PREPAID TICKET ADVICE CHARGES
Delta will impose a service charge of USD 100.00/CAD 146.00 for each prepaid ticket advice
issued by Delta. This service charge is not subject to any discount and cannot be refunded.
EXCEPTION 1: The prepaid ticket advice (PTA) service charge will not apply when prepayment
is made by the U.S. federal government and the form of payment is:
1) U.S. Government Transportation Request (GTR).
2) Diner’s Club cards starting with “3889”.
3) Members/Employees of the U.S. Senate/House of Representatives may use
 GTR/Cash/Check/Money Order/Credit Card or official travel authorization – GPC form no.
 Delta Canadian General Rules Tariff Page 63 of 63
 81-76229-IPP.
RULE 392: RETURNED CHECK CHARGE
Delta will collect USD 15.00/CAD 20.00 for each returned check. This charge is non-refundable
and is not subject to any discount.
RULE 394: THE DELTA CONNECTION AND DOMESTIC CODESHARE SERVICE
A portion of travel for some itineraries marketed by Delta may be provided on the Delta
Connection carriers: Compass Airlines, Endeavor Air, ExpressJet, GoJet Airlines, Republic
Airlines, and SkyWest; codeshare partners Alaska Airlines, American Eagle, Hawaiian Airlines,
Horizon Air Industries and Horizon/Alaska Airlines. If any carrier other than Delta is operating a
flight, we will identify that carrier in our schedules and in written or oral communications with you
during the booking process. Except where specifically noted, all terms of transportation
applicable to Delta specified in these conditions of carriage apply to flights operated by the Delta
Connection carriers, and to codeshare flights when marketed by Delta. 