 Contact information Read instructions on this website: https://rppa-appr.ca/eng/air-travel-complaints

Right to care and communication
Where a flight has been disrupted, you are entitled to means of communication at the airport. Depending on the length of the delay and cause, we may also provide you with refreshments, meals, hotel accommodations and transportation between the airport and place of accommodation. All passengers will be advised of the arrangements for obtaining refreshments, transportation and hotel accommodations by Sunwing Airlines. These provisions apply according to the duration of the expected delay, and/or the recovery time required to provide you with alternative travel arrangements.

We will ensure that all our affected passengers are advised of a flight delay or cancellation, and the reason why the delay or cancellation has occurred, as soon as it is possible to do so. For day-of disruptions, we will also provide you with updated information every 30 minutes until a new estimated departure time or alternative flight has been confirmed. If the status of your departure time changes, we will update you with the new information. Communications will be made through your chosen method (i.e. Flight Alert Subscription) as well as announcements at airports and on our aircraft. If you have not already done so, we recommend you sign up for flight alerts.
Denied boarding (involuntary offload)
We do not overbook flights, however, there may be unique circumstances where we are unable to accommodate you on board the aircraft for operational reasons. We will always endeavour to seek volunteers to travel on an alternative flight first, prioritizing our passengers that require extra assistance and those travelling with family members.

If you have been denied boarding due to a lack of available seats on board or kindly volunteered to give up your seat when asked, we will offer you a
confirmed seat on the next available flight operated by Sunwing Airlines, or at a mutually agreed upon time and compensation. We will also look after you while you wait by providing access to communication, refreshments, meals and/or transportation and hotel accommodations relevant to your wait time and time of day.

Refunds and compensation in the event of an involuntary offload

If the reason for your involuntary offload is within the control of Sunwing Airlines, and it was not due to a safety concern, you may be entitled to compensation. This is also as long as you have complied with Sunwing Airlines terms and conditions and check-in requirements. The amount of compensation you may be entitled to is dependent on what time you reach your destination:
$900 CAD when arriving at your final destination airport less than six (6) hours after your original ticketed time.
$1,800 CAD when arriving at your final destination airport between six (6) and nine (9) hours after your original ticketed time.
$2,400 CAD when arriving at your final destination airport more than nine (9) hours after your original ticketed time.
To claim compensation, speak to a Sunwing representative who will complete the necessary paperwork at the airport and provide you with written confirmation of the agreement. As our airport teams do not have immediate access to funds, compensation payment will be processed within 48 hours. If your new flight arrives at your destination later than anticipated, you may be entitled to additional compensation levels as outlined by the Canadian Transportation Agency. You may  submit this claim for review, within one (1) year from the date of travel.

If you do not want us to rebook you on a new flight, you are also entitled to a refund of the unused airfare portion of your ticket. The refunded amount of the ticket you have not used will be refunded via the same method in which it was purchased.
Tarmac delays
Unfortunately, there may be times where we are affected by lengthy ground delays that can be beyond our control. These delays may be due to severe weather, air traffic control, government operating restrictions or airport operator issues that cannot be anticipated.

While on board at a Canadian or U.S. airport, we will not permit an aircraft to remain on the tarmac (stands, taxiways) for more than three (3) hours without the opportunity for you to disembark. This applies to both departing and arriving aircraft. However, if the expected take-off time is imminent, if the Captain or Air-Traffic Control determines there is a safety or security-related reason to stop this from happening, or if there is no safe workable way to disembark, disembarkation may not be possible.

For flights experiencing a lengthy tarmac delay, we will also:
Ensure passengers on board the delayed flight receive notifications from our crew regarding the status of the delay every 30 minutes while the aircraft is delayed, including the reasons for the tarmac delay, if known.
Provide adequate food and water if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service.
Permit the use of communication devices (cell phones, etc.) for passengers to communicate freely.
Ensure that operable lavatory facilities remain available while the aircraft remains on the tarmac.
Ensure adequate medical attention is available, if needed, while the aircraft remains on the tarmac.
Ensure a comfortable cabin temperature is maintained.
Provide passengers with information regarding the option to deplane from an aircraft that is at the gate or another disembarkation area with the door open, if the opportunity to deplane actually exists.
Lost, delayed or damaged baggage
In the event that your checked baggage is damaged, is not available upon collection at your destination (delayed) or has not been reunited with you after 21 days (lost), we will refund you with any additional fees you paid for your baggage, if:
The baggage was not included for free (complimentary) as part of your package
The bag was purchased in addition to your ticketed amount
Excess fees were applied to the bag
When a bag is delayed (not available upon collection at your destination), we will offer you the opportunity to purchase any essential items necessary for your trip until you have been reunited with your bag.

When a bag has been declared lost (more than 21 days), we will offer compensation based on the Montreal Convention.

If your bag has been damaged and it's not reported at the airport when you arrive, you have seven (7) days to submit a claim to our Central Baggage Department.

Full information regarding our mishandled baggage policy, including how to claim your essential items, refunds or compensation may be found on the back of your property irregularity report, or on the delayed/damaged baggage information pamphlet provided by a Sunwing Airlines representative. Information regarding compensation for loss of baggage is outlined in the Montreal Convention available on the  Canadian Transportation Agency website.
Flight interruptions – delays or cancellations
During any flight disruption, we will keep you informed regarding the status of your delay and notify you of any additional arrangements which may be available to you using the contact information associated with your reservation. Updates are available on your subscribed method of flight alert notification, on our website and at the airport.

For delays exceeding two (2) hours, if you were notified of the disruption 12 hours or less prior to the scheduled departure time indicated on your ticket, we will also look after you by providing access to communication, refreshments, meals and/or transportation and hotel accommodations relevant to your wait time and the time of day.

For disruptions within our control, you may also be eligible for a confirmed ticket on the next available flight operated by Sunwing Airlines or a refund of your unused portion of your airfare ticket. For flights cancelled or delayed more than three (3) hours with less than 14 days notice, you may also be entitled to the following compensation: 
$125 CAD if your arrival is delayed by more than three (3) hours but less than six (6) hours as indicated on your original ticket.
$250 CAD if your arrival is delayed six (6) hours or more but less than nine (9) hours as indicated on your original ticket.
$500 CAD if your flight is delayed by nine (9) hours or more as indicated on your original ticket
You may choose to select Future Travel Vouchers that have no expiry, for a greater value in lieu of cash compensation.
For disruptions outside of our control or if the delay or cancellation incurred is necessary for safety reasons, you may also be eligible for a confirmed ticket on the next available flight operated by Sunwing Airlines or a refund of the unused portion of your airfare ticket. If notification is received less than 12 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure, you may also be entitled to access to communication, refreshments, meals and/or transportation and hotel accommodations relevant to your wait time and time of day. 

To claim compensation, you must  submit our claims with the details of your flight. Claims must be submitted 48 hours after the actual time of departure but before the one-year anniversary of the day on which the flight disruption occurred. Claims will be responded to within 30 days.
Child seating
We will do our best to seat children under the age of 14 as close as possible to their parent/guardian at the time of check-in. In the event that a child under the age of 14 has been separated from their parent or guardian, we encourage you to immediately advise one of our airport staff so we can try to accommodate you.

We will make every effort possible to follow age-dependent proximity seating (unless you select alternative seating arrangements):
Children 4 years of age and under will be seated adjacent to a parent/guardian.
Children 5 – 11 years old will be seated in the same row, separated by no more than one seat from a parent/guardian.
Children 12 - 13 years old will be seated in a row that is separated by no more than one row from a parent/guardian.
Fees will apply for preferred or Elite Plus seating.

For any concerns or complaints regarding your experience, please  contact us.

For more information about Canada’s Air Passenger Protection Regulations, please visit  Canadian Transportation Agency.
Sunwing Airlines U.S. Customer Service Plan
The U.S. Customer Service Plan aims to provide our customers with information regarding our policies and procedures applicable to flights to or from the United States.
Purchase, cancellation and refunds
At Sunwing Airlines, we’re committed to providing our customers with the best price available from any source at the time of booking, whether a flight is booked online at sunwing.ca or by calling Sunwing Airlines Reservations at 1-877-786-9464 (from Canada) or 1-800-472-2611 (from the U.S.). Our cancellation policies, aircraft seating configuration and lavatory information are available on our website and upon request from our telephone reservations staff.
We will make every reasonable effort to notify all affected passengers promptly of planned schedule changes and service withdrawals, known delays and their cause, cancellations and their cause, and flight diversions and their cause. Notification may be given by any of the following methods based on whichever is most practical in the circumstances: telephone, email, written correspondence, flight information posted on sunwing.ca, airport announcements, on board announcements or written advisory distributed at the airport. If you provide us with your contact information, we will notify you of any changes to your itinerary promptly upon becoming aware of or making the change. If your flight is cancelled, we will rebook you at no additional cost on our next flight to your destination that has sufficient available seats – or, with your permission, on other airlines.
We will process a refund to which you are entitled within seven (7) business days after receiving full documentation for the refund request if you paid by credit card, and within 20 days after receiving full documentation for the refund request if you paid by cash or check. A refund of the ticket price and/or associated fees may be processed in the following situations:
Cancelled flight*
Significant schedule change or significant delay
Class of service change (refund of the difference in fare)
Optional service fees (if you were unable to use these services due to flight cancellation, delay, denied boarding or a significant schedule change)
Baggage fees (if your baggage is declared lost by the airline)
Fully refundable tickets purchased as such
Cancelled reservation: For tickets that are purchased at least seven (7) days (168 hours) before a flight’s scheduled departure time, we will allow you to cancel your reservation within 24 hours after purchase and receive a full refund.
*Note: Except as stated under Cancelled Reservation above, in the event of cancellation, whether of an entire flight or an individual reservation, Sunwing Airlines may offer a voucher for future travel.
Flight disruptions
During any schedule disruption, we will keep you informed regarding the status of the delay and notify you of any additional arrangements or services that may be available to mitigate passenger inconvenience; information will be directed to the point of contact associated with your reservation. Updates are also available via your designated method of flight alert notification, on our website and at the airport.
If a change in the status of a flight occurs less than seven (7) days prior to the time the flight is scheduled to depart, we will provide a status update within 30 minutes after we become aware of or make the change. For this purpose, a change in the status of a flight means a cancellation, diversion or delay of 30 minutes or more in the planned operation of the flight. The updated flight status information will also be made available to the public on our website and via our telephone reservation system. Where we know of a change in the status of a flight seven (7) or more days in advance, we will make every reasonable effort to notify our affected passengers promptly.
Meeting essential needs during tarmac delays
We are committed to properly accommodating all passengers, including those with disabilities, during lengthy tarmac delays. Please refer to Sunwing Airlines’ Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac Delays at U.S. Airports for more information.
Customers with disabilities or special needs
We are committed to meeting the needs of our customers with disabilities or special needs, including providing wheelchairs or other assistance to board, deplane, or connect to another flight; seating accommodation on board that meets passengers’ disability-related needs; and assistance with the loading and stowing of assistive devices. We take pride in providing our customers with disabilities a non-discriminatory air travel experience in compliance with U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations.
In addition, all our staff members have received specialized training in assisting customers with disabilities or special needs.
Handling “bumped” passengers with fairness
When a flight has more passengers who have checked in on time and are ready to board than there are seats available, we will first ask customers to give up their seats voluntarily in exchange for compensation, before denying boarding to (“bumping”) anyone involuntarily. We will advise passengers of the available compensation (such as money or travel voucher) and restrictions that may apply before passengers decide whether to give up their confirmed reserved space on the oversold flight.
If there are not enough passengers who are willing to give up their seats voluntarily, we may deny boarding as necessary based on objective criteria we establish to ensure fairness and consistency.
In compliance with DOT regulations, we are required to compensate passengers after involuntarily bumping them from an oversold flight, with certain exceptions. Affected passengers will be given a statement describing their rights and explaining how we decide who gets bumped.
Lost, delayed or damaged baggage
We try hard to deliver baggage on time, make every reasonable effort to return mishandled baggage within 24 hours, compensate passengers for reasonable expenses that result due to delay in delivery and reimburse passengers for any fee charged to transport a bag if that bag is lost. Under agreements applicable to international travel, we are required to compensate passengers if their bags are damaged, delayed or lost while in our custody.
Seating families travelling with children
We are committed to making every reasonable effort to ensure that families with children are seated together.
A child under two years old may be held on a parent or guardian’s lap during the flight. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) encourages all passengers travelling with children under two years of age to use an FAA-approved child safety restraint system or device. For more information, please visit the  FAA’s Flying with Children page. FAA regulations prohibit children under 15 and passengers caring for small children from sitting in exit row seats.
Response to customer complaints
We strive to provide our passengers with a seamless travel experience. Our Customer Relations Department welcomes your feedback and suggestions at sunwingcares.ca. Please refer to our website’s  contact us page to provide feedback or suggestions.
If you encounter a disability-related issue related to accommodation or service, please ask Sunwing Airlines staff at the airport to put you in touch with a Complaint Resolution Official (CRO). A CRO is the airline’s expert in disability-related issues in air travel and has the authority to resolve complaints on behalf of Sunwing Airlines.
We are committed to acknowledging passengers’ written complaints within 30 days after we receive them. A written response addressing these complaints will be sent within 60 days of receiving them (30 days for disability-related complaints).
Sunwing Airlines - Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac Delays at U.S. Airports
At Sunwing Airlines, we’re committed to adhering to the U.S. Department of Transportation tarmac delay contingency plan requirements for operations at U.S. airports. The plan outlined below is intended to provide information to our passengers and assurance that your safety and comfort are our top priority.

A tarmac delay occurs when an aircraft is on the ground with passengers on board and the passengers have no opportunity to deplane, whether on departure (taxi-out) or on arrival (taxi-in). Delays may arise unexpectedly due to severe weather, air traffic control congestion or restrictions, government operating restrictions, airport operator issues or other complications that often cannot be anticipated. Consequently, we have enhanced our customer commitment policy to do everything possible to minimize any inconvenience.
When operating at an airport in the U.S.:

• We will not permit an aircraft to remain on the tarmac for more than four (4) hours for an arriving international flight, or more than four (4) hours after the main aircraft door is closed before the aircraft begins to return to a gate or other suitable disembarkation point for a departing international flight, without allowing passengers to deplane, subject to the following exceptions:

o Where air traffic control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or another disembarkation point to permit one or more passengers to deplane would significantly disrupt airport operations; OR
o Where there is a safety- or security-related reason the aircraft cannot leave its position on the tarmac to deplane passengers, or where the pilot-in-command determines that permitting one or more passengers to deplane would jeopardize passenger safety or security.
We will offer passengers an opportunity to deplane as stated above even if the flight diverted to an airport other than the originally scheduled airport.

• During a tarmac delay, we are committed to:

o Notifying passengers regarding the status of the delay whenever a tarmac delay exceeds 30 minutes. The notification will include the reasons for the delay if known.
o During a tarmac delay on all departing flights (including a departure after a flight diversion has occurred), timely notifying passengers of the opportunity to deplane at a gate or other suitable disembarkation point each time the opportunity exists.
o Providing passengers with adequate snacks and a selection of non-alcoholic beverages (including water) no later than two (2) hours after the start of the tarmac delay, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service.
o Ensuring that operable toilet facilities remain available while the aircraft remains on the tarmac.
o Ensuring that the cabin temperature remains comfortable while the aircraft remains on the tarmac.
o Permitting the use of cell phones while the aircraft remains on the tarmac unless it’s deemed unsafe to do so.
o Ensuring that adequate medical attention is available while the aircraft remains on the tarmac, if needed.
Our tarmac delay contingency plan has been coordinated with airport authorities, our service partners (handling agents), and U.S. government authorities, such as the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) and Customs and Border Protection (CBP), at each of our U.S. airports. This includes alternate airports in the United States as appropriate. Sunwing Airlines hereby provides assurance of sufficient resources to implement this plan.
WHEN CAN I CLAIM COMPENSATION FOR A FLIGHT DELAY OR CANCELLATION?
You may claim compensation for inconvenience for disruptions within Sunwing Airlines control. For flights cancelled or delayed more than 3 hours with less than 14 days notice, you may be entitled to the following compensation:
$125.00 CAD if your arrival is delayed by more than 3 hours but less than 6 hours as indicated on your original ticket
$250.00 CAD if your arrival is delayed 6 hours or more but less than 9 hours as indicated on your original ticket
$500.00 CAD if your flight is delayed by 9 hours or more as indicated on your original ticket
You may choose to select Future Travel Vouchers that have no expiry for a greater value in lieu of cash compensation. You may not claim compensation for disruptions outside of Sunwing Airlines control or if the delay or cancellation incurred was necessary for safety reasons.
To claim compensation, you must submit your claims with the details of your flight. Claims must be submitted 48 hours after the actual time of departure but before the one-year anniversary of the day on which the flight disruption occurred. Claims will be responded to within 30 days.
WHEN CAN I CLAIM A REFUND FOR A FLIGHT DELAY OR CANCELLATION?
For disruptions within Sunwing Airlines control or if the delay or cancellation incurred is necessary for safety reasons, you may also be eligible for a confirmed seat on the next available flight operated by Sunwing Airlines or a refund of the unused portion of your airfare ticket.
If you experience a flight disruption that is within the airline's control but not required for safety and you choose to take a ticket refund instead of rebooking, you’ll still be compensated $125 for the inconvenience.
If notification is received less than 12 hours prior to the scheduled time of departure, you may also be entitled to access to communication, refreshments, meals and/or transportation and hotel accommodations relevant to your wait time and the time of day.
HOW DO I SUBMIT A CLAIM WITH SUNWING AIRLINES?
You may claim compensation for inconvenience for disruptions within Sunwing Airlines control, for flights cancelled or delayed more than 3 hours with less than 14 days notice. Please  submit a claim.
ALL OTHER AIRLINES
Full information regarding the Canadian Air Passenger Protection Regulations: SOR/2019-150 can be found by visiting the  Canadian Transportation Agency website.
