Carry-on or Checked?
Carry-on baggage is screened by passing your baggage through the X-ray equipment at the screening checkpoint. If your item is too big to go through the X-ray, it must be checked. 
Similarly, if an item is not permitted past the checkpoint, you may have the option to place it in your checked baggage. 
Did you know?
It's quicker and easier for us to inspect unlocked bags, but if you prefer to lock your bags, here’s some valuable advice.
What Can I Bring as Carry-On?
Transport Canada allows a maximum of two carry-on bags per person.  The acceptable size for carry-on bags is set by your airline, but may include:
small suitcases
overnight bags
backpacks
briefcases
laptop bags 
camera cases that, in addition to a camera, can also carry items such as spare lenses and film
What else can I bring as carry-on that does not count towards my maximum?
small purses  
cases containing only cameras (still or video)
medication or medical equipment (oxygen tank, doctor’s bag, CPAP machine)
coats and outer garments
crutches, canes or walkers
diplomatic or consular bags
strollers and child restraint systems
duty-free items purchased after the security check
snacks that are not liquids or gels
Your airline may have other restrictions on the number and size of carry-on items. Please contact your airline or visit their website for exact details. 
See How to Pack your Carry-on for additional tips!  
Check our What Can I Bring? page to make sure your item is allowed on the plane and to determine if it can be packed in your carry-on or should go in your checked baggage.
What Can I Bring as Checked Baggage?
Many items that are not permitted in carry-on are allowed to be placed in checked baggage. Check our What Can I Bring? page to confirm that your item can go in checked baggage. Checked baggage undergoes separate screening, and may be searched as part of the screening process. Locked bags can still be physically searched.
For questions about checked baggage restrictions (e.g. weight, dimensions) and charges for excess baggage, contact your airline directly.
Missing Items
An item may have been taken out of your bag because it was not permitted in checked baggage. If there was no “Notification of Checked Baggage Inspection” card in your bag, a CATSA screening officer did not search it. In such cases, you should contact the airline for information.
If you received notification that your checked baggage was searched and an item was removed, please follow the directions on the card regarding who to call for more information.
Share this page
Date modified: 2023-01-11
Liquids, Non-solid Food & Personal Items
You can make your security screening experience quicker and easier by packing your liquids, non-solid food, personal and toiletry items properly.  At the airport, these items are referred to as “liquids, aerosols and gels.”
Below you will find information on various items that fall into these categories, a list of items that are exempted from restrictions, and tips on how to pack all of them. 
On this page
Examples of Liquids, Non-solid Food and Personal Items that are Liquids, Aerosols and Gels:
How to Pack your Liquids, Non-Solid Food and Personal Items
Liquids/Non-solid Food
Alcohol
Personal Items
Exceptions
Examples of Liquids, Non-solid Food and Personal Items that are Liquids, Aerosols and Gels:
Liquids
Aerosols
Gels
coffee
soft drinks
juice
bottled water
maple syrup
alcohol
shampoo
conditioner
mouthwash
toothpaste
perfume
cologne
liquid soap
insect repellent
liquid/gel based hand sanitizers
creams/lotions
hairspray
liquid based cosmetics (e.g. mascara, liquid foundation, liquid eyeliner)
hairspray
body spray
static remover
sunscreen spray
shaving cream
aerosol deodorant
aerosol cheese strings
lipgloss
hair styling gel
jam
jelly
pudding
yogurt
gelatin
mashed potatoes
peanut butter
chocolate spread
cheese spread
maple spread
shaving gel
gel-based deodorant
gel-based cosmetics (e.g. gel blush, gel lip products)
Please note that if an item that is illegal in Canada (e.g. pepper spray) is found at a screening checkpoint, CATSA is required to notify the police.
How to Pack your Liquids, Non-Solid Food and Personal Items
Containers of liquids, non-solid food and personal items in your carry-on must be 100 ml/100 g (3.4 oz) or less. All containers must fit in one clear, resealable plastic bag no more than 1L in capacity. The bag must be transparent so screening officers can easily see the contents.
Each passenger is allowed a single 1 L bag containing liquids, food and personal items. The approximate dimensions of a 1L bag are 15.24 cm by 22.86 cm (6 in. by 9 in.) or 20 cm by 17.5 cm (8 in. by 7 in.).
At the screening point, take your plastic bag out of your carry-on and place it in a bin.
Any containers over 100 ml/100 g (3.4 oz) can be placed in your checked baggage as long as they are not prohibited items. 
Avoid packing gifts and souvenirs containing liquids, aerosols and gels in your carry-on. These include: liquor, wine, beer, snowglobes, cans of condensed soup, maple syrup, perfume, and lotion. Put them in checked baggage or ship them separately.
Liquids/Non-solid Food
Beverages: Drink or discard any beverages in containers of more than 100 ml before you get to security screening checkpoint.  This includes water in your personal water bottle. You can refill your container once you pass through security.
Duty-Free Alcohol: Be sure you know the rules for bringing duty-free alcohol as part of your carry-on baggage.
Food is not exempted from restrictions on liquids:
Non-solid food (e.g. yogurt, pudding, peanut butter, jam) in your carry-on must be in containers of 100 ml or less. All containers must fit in the same clear, closed, resealable 1 L plastic bag, along with all other containers of liquids, food or personal items you are carrying.
Food over 100 ml that is normally a liquid or gel but has been frozen solid will not be allowed to pass through security in your carry-on. In order for a food to be considered a solid, it must be solid at room temperature.
Solid food with less than 100 ml of liquid: Canned or jarred goods containing both solids and liquid that clearly contain less than 100 ml of liquid (e.g., can of tuna) are allowed. These items must fit in the same clear, closed, resealable 1 L plastic bag with all other containers of liquids, food or personal items you are carrying. 
Food in checked baggage: Both solid food and non-solid (over 100 ml) can go in your checked baggage; however, some restrictions may apply.
Did you know?
You can bring solid food in both carry-on and checked baggage. See Travelling with Food Items for more detail. 
Alcohol
You can pack alcoholic beverages (including homemade wine and beer, and commercial products) in your checked baggage if:
The percentage of alcohol by volume is 70% (140 proof) or less.
The quantity does not exceed five litres per person for alcoholic beverages between 24% and 70% alcohol by volume.
Alcoholic beverages containing 24% alcohol or less are not subject to limitations on quantities. 
Duty-free alcohol: See Duty-Free Purchases.
Check the Canadian Border Services Agency website for personal exemption amounts on alcoholic beverages.
Personal Items
Personal items are allowed in carry-on baggage if they comply with the liquid restrictions. Some restrictions also apply to personal items in checked baggage.
The following items are allowed in limited quantities in your checked baggage:
Insect repellent (limit of one aerosol canister per person)
Aerosol items that are toiletry articles (e.g. hair spray, perfumes, cologne, aerosol deodorant)
Aerosols are subject to a maximum limit of 500 ml/500 g per container, with a total net quantity not exceeding 2 L/2 kg. Release valves on aerosols must be protected by a cap or other suitable means to prevent inadvertent release of the contents.
Exceptions
Some items are exempted from the 100 ml or 100 g (3.4 oz) limit and do not have to be placed in a plastic bag. However, you must declare these items to the screening officer for inspection. The exceptions are:
Baby food/drink: If you are travelling with an infant younger than two years of age (0-24 months), baby food, milk, formula, water and juice are allowed.
Breast milk: Passengers flying with or without their child can bring breast milk in quantities greater than 100 ml
Prescription medicines are allowed.
Essential non-prescription medicines, such as homeopathic products, pain relieving medication, cough syrup, decongestant spray, gel-based nutritional supplements, saline solution or eye care products, are allowed. 
COVID-19 test kits are permitted without restrictions in carry-on and checked baggage.
Gel and ice packs are allowed, if they are needed to treat an injury, to refrigerate baby food, milk, breast milk, formula, water and juice for infants younger than two years of age (0-24 months), or to preserve medically necessary items or medication
Liquids/gels for diabetes: Juice or gels are allowed if you need them for diabetic or other medical conditions.
Distilled water for CPAP devices: The distilled water needed to operate Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) devices is exempt from liquid restrictions.
Documentation to support your medical needs or condition is not required; however, if you feel that it would help ease your screening, it should be presented to the screening officer along with your medically necessary items.
Share this page
Date modified: 2023-04-19
Medication and Medical Items
Passengers with medical needs are allowed to bring prescription and essential non-prescription medications with them through the security checkpoint as well as any medically required items and mobility aids.
Prescription and essential non-prescription medications
You may bring prescription and essential non-prescription liquid, gel and aerosol medication in quantities more than 100 ml in your carry-on bag. Medications do not have to be placed in your 1 L plastic bag. See How to Pack your Medications for more detail.
Solid tablet non-prescription medication (i.e. acetaminophen, ibuprophen, vitamins) is not subject to volume restrictions. Certain powders and granular materials (e.g. mineral-based supplements that are primarily calcium, magnesium or iron) in your carry-on are limited to a total quantity of 350 ml or less.
Examples of essential non-prescription liquid, aerosol or gel medications:
Contact lens solution
Cough syrup
Eye drops
Decongestant spray
Puffers
Bringing a day-by-day pill separator is not an issue for security; however, there may be other considerations about travelling with medication, especially when travelling outside of Canada. We recommend finding out more at http://travel.gc.ca/travelling/health-safety/medication. 
Recreational cannabis: Passengers are responsible for knowing the laws and regulations in effect at their destination within Canada. For more information, visit https://www.canada.ca/cannabis. Liquid and topical forms are subject to liquids, aerosols and gels (LAGs) restrictions in carry-on baggage, and must be placed with other LAGs in a 1-litre clear closed and re-sealable plastic bag. 
  Cannabis for medical purposes: The amount of cannabis you carry must be in accordance with the Access to Cannabis for Medical Purposes Regulations. For more information, see Health Canada’s Guide to Understanding the Regulations. Cannabis oil is permitted in carry-on in a quantity of more than 100 ml when used for medicinal purposes, and you will need to remove it from your carry-on and present it to the screening officer at the entry to pre-board screening. However, if the amount of oil is 100 ml or less, it is to be placed in a 1-litre clear bag with other liquids, aerosols and gels.
  Please Note: Flying outside of Canada with cannabis is illegal. For more information, visit https://travel.gc.ca/travelling/cannabis-and-international-travel
How to Pack your Medication
We recommend that you pack all medication in your carry-on baggage and place it in an easy-to-access area.
We recommend that you carry liquid, gel or aerosol prescription medication in original containers with a pharmacy label identifying the medication.
Prescription and essential non-prescription medications are exempt from liquid, aerosol and gel restrictions, but you should be ready to present them to the screening officer.
Medical Implants, Mobility Aids and Assistive Devices
Some examples of medical items and mobility aids are listed in the table below.  Note that certain medical devices and passengers with implanted medical devices must be swabbed for explosive trace detection (ETD) testing. See the Special Needs page for tips by health condition, disability or medical need. 
Medical items and assistive devices 
Mobility aids
Computer or electrical assistive devices
Apnea monitors
Orthopedic shoes
External medical devices
Assistive/adaptive equipment
Augmentation devices
Ostomy supplies
Enteral-feeding pumps
Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) machines and respirators (the distilled water used by this device is exempted from the liquid restrictions)
Bi-level positive airway pressure (BPAP) devices
Personal oxygen concentrators (POCs) 
Hearing aids
Cochlear implants
Visual aids
Personal supplemental oxygen*
CO2 personal oxygen concentrators*
Teething rings
Medications
All diabetes related medication, equipment & supplies
Braille note takers
Communications and cognitive aids/devices (e.g. slate and stylus, automatic page turners, book holders, and adapted pencil grips)
Any other disability related equipment and associated supplies 
Syringes, hypodermic needles and biojectors (needle guard must be in place and you must have the medication with you)
Medical defibrillators*
One small mercury thermometer (must be in protective case)
Wheelchairs (and tools for wheelchair disassembly/reassembly)
Scooters
Crutches
Canes or walking sticks
Orthotic devices
Walkers
Prosthetic devices (and tools for prosthetic devices)
Artificial and prostheses 
Sports devices (that enable persons with disabilities to play sports and be physically active)
Gas cylinders for operating mechanical limbs
Casts
Support braces
Support appliances
Service animals
*with airline’s approval
Documentation to support your medical needs or condition is not required; however, if you feel that it would help ease your screening, it should be presented to the screening officer along with your medically necessary items.
  Share this page
Date modified: 2023-03-27
Security Screening
Every passenger at Canada’s airports must pass through security screening, which includes the following steps that you need to follow:
Have your boarding pass ready to present for verification.  You may need to show photo identification. For questions related to identification required for boarding, contact your airline.
Place personal items in bins. Check our What Do I Put in the Bins? page for tips.
Send your bin(s) as well as your carry-on bag through the X-ray machine. See How to Pack your Carry-on to make this process easier.
Pass through the walk-through metal detector.
Once this process is complete, you may retrieve your carry-on baggage at the X-ray machine. You can speed up the screening process by being aware of carry-on baggage restrictions and what to wear to ensure you don’t set off the alarm at the walk-through metal detector.
Additional screening or separate screening of particular items
At times, additional screening or separate screening of particular items is required in addition to the regular process.
Additional Screening
Explosive Trace Detection (Swabbing)
Sacred and Spiritual Items
Head Coverings
ALERT – Enhanced screening measures of electronic devices. Passengers will continue to be randomly selected for additional screening, which will now include screening of their electronic devices. If selected, you will be asked to remove any covers or protective cases from your electronic devices before inspection, and may be asked to show that they can be powered up. Before travel, you should:
Make sure your cases can be easily removed, or are removed in advance, and
Ensure that any devices you are travelling with are charged and can power up.
Note: Electronic devices that cannot be taken out of their cases or powered on when requested during enhanced screening will not be permitted beyond the screening checkpoint.
Additional Screening
If you trigger an alarm at the walk-through metal detector or, if your bag triggers an alarm at the X-ray machine, or if you are or your bag is chosen at random, you may be asked to undergo additional screening. This may involve:
A screening officer using a hand-wand device that detects metal objects.
A partial or full physical search (pat-down) of your person
A partial or full physical search of your carry-on bag
A scan of the body using a full-body scanner.
Swabbing using explosive trace detection (ETD).
Random additional screening
Random additional screening searches are legislated requirements at all major airports in Canada. 
Random selection helps us ensure the highest standards of security. It builds unpredictability into the screening process, and ensures an impartial selection process. It is a globally respected practice, and is consistent with our international obligations to enhance and protect security while causing the minimum interference with or delay to air travel.
Explosive Trace Detection (Swabbing)
CATSA uses explosive trace detection (ETD) as a security measure. Screening officers may swab your carry-on baggage, clothing, shoes or laptop. When a trace of person is required, the screening officer will swab your hands, waist area and foot (or footwear) and then use ETD technology to test for explosives.
Certain items and passengers must undergo ETD testing, including passengers who:
Are randomly selected
Are wearing medical casts or large bandages / dressings
Have prosthetic or orthotic devices on their person
Have implanted medical devices
Are travelling with live animals (including service animals)
If an ETD swab is needed, you can ask to be screened in a private search room.
Sacred and Spiritual Items
We do not recommend packing delicate or fragile items in your checked baggage.
Screening officers are instructed to treat items with the utmost respect and care and to screen sacred and spiritual items without holding or touching them.
Before the screening process begins, let the screening officer know you have a sacred or spiritual item in your possession and advise the officer if:
your sacred or spiritual item cannot be physically touched;
there is a specific protocol for handling your sacred or spiritual item;
an item cannot go through X-ray screening;
an item cannot be screened by a screening officer of a particular gender;
you must keep wearing the sacred or spiritual item during screening.
The screening officer will provide you with screening options for the item based on the nature of the item and your preference.
You can always request that your item be screened in a private search area if you feel more comfortable.
If flying within Canada or to an international (non-U.S.) destination, ceremonial knives and swords (e.g. a kirpan) with a blade 6 cm or less in length are permitted through the pre-board screening checkpoint. Blades longer than 6 cm should be packed in your checked baggage. Blades of any type or length are not permitted on flights to the U.S. Transport Canada offers a detailed list of prohibited items for passengers on all flights.
Head Coverings
Depending on your flight's destination, there are different screening procedures for head coverings.
Domestic and international flights:
You will be asked to remove a non-religious head covering and place it in a bin for X-ray screening.
If wearing a religious head covering, you may keep it on however any head covering that causes an alarm will require additional screening. If the alarm cannot be properly resolved, you may be required to remove your head covering in order for a physical search to be conducted. If a physical search is required, it can be conducted in a private search room at your request.
Flights to the United States:
You will not be asked to remove your head covering however additional screening of the head covering is required. If the alarm cannot be properly resolved, you may be required to remove your head covering in order for a physical search to be conducted.
If a physical search is required, it may be conducted in a private search room at your request.
  Note
Be sure to review our tips for a stress-free screening!
  Share this page
Date modified: 2023-03-27
