flexibility policies
cancellation policy and fees
Passengers can cancel their flights through My Bookings. Cancellations are allowed up to 3 hours prior to departure. No credit or refunds are provided for missed flights, no shows, cancellations made within 3 hours prior to scheduled departure, or for fare differences after a reservation has been made. Cancellations are subject to the fees below:

cancellations more than 7 days prior to departure
$39+ tax
cancellation fee
per flight, per passenger


cancellations more than 48 hrs to 7 days prior to departure
$59+ tax
cancellation fee
per flight, per passenger


cancellations made within 3-48 hrs prior to departure
$99+ tax
cancellation fee
per flight, per passenger


To cancel your flight, visit My Bookings. A travel credit, less the cancellation fee, will be applied for use up to 12 months from the original booking date.

24 hour refundability
$0
cancellation fee
per passenger, per flight


change policy and fees
Passengers can change their flight through My Bookings. Changes are allowed up to 3 hours prior to departure. Changes are subject to a fee. For all changes, passengers are responsible for any difference in fares. The new flight date must be within 12 months of the original booking flight date. All payments are non-refundable. If you cannot use the original flight within 12 months of the original booking date, the original payment will not be refunded or credited. Passengers with TravelFLEX, or the Big Bundle, may make one change for free at My Bookings. Change fees are:

changes made more than 7 days prior to departure
$29 + tax
change fee
per flight, per passenger


changes made within 48 hrs up to 7 days prior to departure
$49 + tax
change fee
per flight, per passenger


changes made within 3-48 hrs prior to departure
$89 + tax
change fee
per flight, per passenger


Passengers have 24 hours from the time of making a reservation to cancel the booking for a full refund provided the travel is more than 7 days from the time of booking. To cancel within 24 hours of booking, visit My Bookings.
passenger protection
regulations
general information
If you are denied boarding, your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours, or your baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights please contact your air carrier or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency’s website.
air passenger protection rights (APPR)
Air Passenger Protections Rights (APPR) were developed by the Canadian Transportation Agency (CTA) to establish airline obligations toward passengers, including minimum compensation levels and standards of treatment in different circumstances. The regulations set out airlines' obligations to passengers in the following areas:

Communication;
Delayed or cancelled flights;
Denied boarding;
Tarmac delays;
The seating of children under the age of 14;
Lost or damaged baggage; and
The transportation of musical instruments.
Airlines are required to follow the obligations set out in the regulations and may be subject to administrative monetary penalties for non-compliance. In the event of an air travel-related dispute that cannot be resolved directly by a passenger and an airline, the passenger can make a complaint to the CTA.

To ensure our passengers know their rights, we have included the following summaries about the terms and conditions of carriage in certain scenarios. Contact us if you have any questions.

flight disruptions
Provisions on flight disruptions can be found in the Canada Transportation Act section 86.11(1) and the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. It is important that passengers and airlines understand the different categories of flight disruption included in the Air Passenger Protection Regulations, because they determine what obligations airlines have towards passengers affected by flight disruptions. These apply to flights to, from and within Canada (including connecting flights). In particular, it explains that the causes of flight disruption fall into three categories:

situations within the Carrier’s control;
situations within the Carrier’s control but required for safety; and
situations outside the Carrier’s control.
In all cases Flair will communicate:

the reason for the delay, cancellation or denial of boarding;
the compensation to which the passenger may be entitled to for the inconvenience;
the standard of treatment for passengers, if any; and
the recourse available against the Carrier, including their recourse to the Canadian Transportation Agency.
Note: Flair meets the definition of a Small Carrier under the APPR.

within the carrier’s control
If a flight delay, cancellation or denied boarding event occurs the is within the control of the Carrier or within the Control of the Carrier for Safety, and occurs less than 12 hours before the departure time on the additional ticket, in addition to the communication requirements, the Carrier will provide passengers with the following treatment free of charge:

food and drink in reasonable quantities, taking into account the length of the wait, the time of day and the location of the passenger; and
(b) access to a means of communication (This requirement does not include the obligation to provide complimentary access to the internet, though this may be part of the communications provision)
If the Carrier expects that the passenger will be required to wait overnight for a flight reserved as part of alternate travel arrangements, the Carrier must offer, free of charge, hotel or other comparable accommodation that is reasonable in relation to the location of the passenger, as well as transportation to the hotel or other accommodation and back to the airport or transportation to and from their residence.

The Carrier will also provide a confirmed reservation for the next available flight that is operated by the original Carrier and is travelling on any reasonable air route from the same airport to the destination that is indicated on the passenger’s original ticket. Alternatively, if the passenger is no longer at the point of origin that is indicated on the ticket and the travel no longer serves a purpose because of the delay, cancellation or denial of boarding, the Carrier will refund the ticket and provide the passenger with a confirmed reservation that is for a flight to that point of origin, and accommodates the passenger’s travel needs In any other case, refund the unused portion of the ticket.

To the extent possible, the alternate travel arrangements must provide services that are comparable to those of the original ticket and will refund the cost of any additional services purchased by a passenger in connection with their original ticket if the passenger did not receive those services on the alternate flight; or the passenger paid for those services a second time.

If the alternative travel arrangements provide for a higher class of service than the original ticket, the Carrier must not request any additional payment. If the alternative travel arrangements provide for a lower class of service than the original ticket, the Carrier will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket.

Refunds under this section must be paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.

If a denied boarding event occurs that is within the control of the Carrier or within the Control of the Carrier for Safety, the Carrier will provide the same access to communication and standard of care, including possible accommodation if the situation requires it. No passenger will be denied boarding until the Carrier has asked for other passengers to voluntarily willing to give up their seat in exchange for a confirmed benefit, made in writing.

compensation: delay
If a delay is within Carrier control, and not for reasons of safety, and the passenger is informed 14 days or less before the original departure time of the flight, the following minimum compensation may apply:

(i) $125, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by three hours or more, but less than six hours,
(ii) $250, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by six hours or more, but less than nine hours, or
(iii) $500, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by nine hours or more.
compensation: cancellation
If a cancellation is within Carrier control, and not for reasons of safety, and the passenger is informed 14 days or less before the original departure time of the flight, the minimum compensation of $125 may apply.

compensation: denied boarding
If a denied boarding is within Carrier control, and not for reasons of safety, the following minimum compensation may apply:

$900, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by less than six hours;
$1,800, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by six hours or more, but less than nine hours; and
$2,400, if the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on the original ticket is delayed by nine hours or more.
The Carrier will provide compensation to the passenger as soon as it is operationally feasible, but no later than 48 hours after the time of the denial of boarding.
If the compensation is paid before the arrival of the flight reserved as part of alternate travel arrangements at the destination that is indicated on their ticket, that compensation is determined based on the flight’s expected arrival. If it is not possible to provide the compensation before the boarding time of the flight reserved as part of alternate travel arrangements, the Carrier must provide the passenger with a written confirmation of the amount of the compensation that is owed. If the arrival of the passenger’s flight at the destination that is indicated on their original ticket is after the time it was expected to arrive when the compensation was paid or confirmed in writing and the amount that was paid or confirmed no longer reflects the amount due in accordance with subsection (a), (b) or (c), the Carrier will adjust the amount of the compensation accordingly.

compensation: lost or damaged baggage
If a Carrier admits to the loss of baggage (the delayed return of baggage to the passenger), or if baggage is lost for more than 21 days or is damaged, the Carrier must provide compensation equal to or greater than the sum of:

• the fees paid for that baggage,

• the value of the baggage and its contents; and/or

• the interim expenses of the passenger

Interim expenses are considered items required by the passenger for the purpose of the travel taken. When replacing items, passengers are also reminded they are required to limit their loss, as most baggage is returned to the passenger.

The maximum liability of the Carrier is $2,100 Canadian Dollars. The Carrier does not provide an option to insure for higher values; passengers wishing to do so should contact an independent insurance agent.

tarmac delays
When a tarmac delay occurs, we must provide affected passengers access to communication (if feasible), reasonable quantities of food and drink (non-alcoholic), access to working lavatories and adequate heating, cooling and ventilation.

If a passenger requires medical assistance, the Carrier will assist in obtaining medical assistance.

With some exceptions, once an aircraft is delayed on the tarmac at an airport in Canada for more than three hours, the airline must let passengers disembark. We will allow passengers with disabilities leave the aircraft first if they wish, along with their support persons, service animals, or emotional support animals. Passengers with disabilities will be consulted to determine whether they would like to disembark first.

exceptions

Airlines are not required to let passengers disembark at the three-hour mark if takeoff is imminent and they can meet all required standards of treatment previously listed until take-off.

“Takeoff is imminent” means it is the reasonable opinion of the pilot in command that takeoff will occur no later than 3 hours and 45 minutes after the start of the tarmac delay (i.e., when aircraft doors were closed).

Airlines are also not required to provide passengers the opportunity to disembark if they are prevented by reasons beyond their control (e.g., safety, security, air traffic control, availability of a deplaning method (gates or stairs), availability of a safe area to deplane to or for customs reasons).

Tarmac Delay Plan

children under the age of 14
For the seating of children under age 14, we will attempt to assign a seat before check-in to the child that is close to their parent, guardian or tutor. If no seats are available, we will assign seats at the time of check-in, or ask for volunteers to change seats at the time of boarding, or ask for volunteers to change seats prior to take-off, all at no additional charge.

For children four (4) and younger, we will attempt to assign a seat adjacent to their parent, guardian or tutor. For children between 5 and 11, we will attempt to assign a seat in the same row as their parent, guardian or tutor, with no more than one seat separation. For children aged 12 or 13, we will attempt to assign a seat in a row that is separated by no more than one row from their parent, guardian or tutor. The Carrier will not force another passenger to change seats or leave the flight to seat a child and accompanying passenger together.

diversions
Should a flight be diverted to an alternate airport, Flair will proceed to the original intended destination once the situation has been resolved and the flight has been authorized to proceed. Diversion airports are selected in order of safety & suitability, as well as trying to provide a minimum of disruption & inconvenience and the maximum support to passengers. In some cases, alternates outside of Canada are selected. In these instances, the laws of these countries may supersede those in Canada. Flair accepts no liability for passengers who may be detained with the exception of a refund of the unused portion of the ticket.

prices, carrier charges and restrictions
Fares are subject to change until purchased. All domestic fares plus applicable taxes and fees are per Passenger for each way of travel and include a randomly assigned seat and one personal item. All other services or ancillary products are optional for purchase. Flair Air ancillary products and services with all terms and conditions are available via Flair Air's website.

Flair Air offers a range of fares, and on certain discount fares availability may be limited and restrictions may apply. Subject to certain exceptions and/or restrictions set forth hereinafter, all reservations are non-refundable. All reservations are non-transferable.

No increase in fares or charges applicable to the carriage of Passengers will be collected in the event that an increase in fares or charges occurs between the time of ticket issuance and the effective date of any subsequent tariff containing such an increase provided the confirmed ticketed reservations are not changed and the ticket is not reissued at the Passenger's request.

For more information, please refer to Flair service provider carrier Reservation terms and conditions in our tariffs. Flair reserves its right to cancel a booking without further notice, due to non-payment or due to litigation regarding payment.

accepted methods of payment
Only credit card payments are accepted on the www.flyflair.com website and by phone. When you pay on the website, your payment information is encrypted and sent over a secure connection.

You can pay with the following credit cards: MasterCard (credit card) and Visa (credit card). Please note that credit card and bank fees may be charged in some countries in connection with the purchases made on the website. Additional bank fees or credit card fees charged by the customer’s credit card provider or bank in connection with a purchase will be borne solely by the Customer.

Flair charges the exact amount of the price shown at the moment of purchase without applying any transaction or service fees. However, your card issuer may apply additional fees. Please contact your card issuer in order to obtain the nature and the amount of any eventual additional fees before finalizing your purchase. By finalizing your purchase, you confirm that you have been advised of this. Flair shall not be held responsible for any additional fees applied by your card issuer.

To avoid fraudulent purchases, (e.g. due to a lost card or the provision of false information), Flair reserves the right to request additional information from the passengers and/or the cardholder at any time after a purchase has been made – including at check-in – so that it may verify the information provided when the purchase was made. Flair also reserves the right to require another form of payment should a customer not be able to accurately provide such additional information. Flair also reserves the right to require another form of payment should a customer not be able to accurately provide such additional information. Furthermore, Flair reserves the right to cancel the booking in case of suspected fraud, theft or dishonesty.

By booking through the website, you acknowledge and consent that Flair may, without your signature, draw payment from your credit or debit card to complete the transaction.

booking and confirmation
Bookings must be accompanied by a payment in full before they can be confirmed. At the time of booking of certain flights, you may be requested to provide certain information found in your passport. Confirmation regarding prices, travel dates, flights, hotels, car rentals, and other services, as the case may be, is only given once the payment is received and is based on availability of Services. Upon completion of the check-out procedure and receipt of the payment in full, you will receive an email confirming that your booking has been accepted and summarizing all the details of your flight(s).

use of flair travel digital reservation
The Flair Digital Reservation System, which forms a part of the Flair Digital Properties, is provided solely to assist our guests in determining the price and availability of travel related goods and services and to enable of secure, informed and legitimate reservations with Flair Air. In connection with this service, you agree to and guarantee the following:

You're at least 18 years of age, and possess the legal authority to enter into this agreement and to use the Flair Digital Properties in accordance with all of the terms and conditions contained in this Flair Website Reservations Agreement;
are at least 18 years of age, and have the legal right and ability to enter into this User Agreement and to use or access the Flair Digital Reservation System in accordance with its Terms;
agree to supervise all persons who have not reached the age of majority in your jurisdiction who use or access the Flair Digital Reservation System under or using your name or Flair Profile; and
have obtained all necessary authorizations, consents and approvals from any third party to submit information, including personal information and to delete or modify information;
by entering into this User Agreement and using and accessing the Flair Digital Reservation System, including purchasing any products and/or services contained herein, you are not breaching any contract, obligation, agreement, or any provision of any law or regulation, or infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party;
accept full responsibility for all assessments, charges, duties, fees, and taxes and any other financial liability resulting from your use of our website under your name or profile, as well as all use of others using your name or profile on our website;
have submitted or will submit, or others using or accessing our website under or using your name or profile have submitted or will submit, information, content or material which is true and accurate.
persons with special needs
Reservations for persons who may have special needs require extra qualifying information for Flair to effectively meet our guests’ needs. Please chat with us via our chatbot to make a reservation of this nature. Flair reserves the right, without liability, to cancel any reservation made through our website for a person with special needs or disabilities, if, in Flair sole discretion, reasonable accommodation in accordance with Flair guidelines on the transportation of such guests, cannot be provided in respect of the reservation made.

cancellation policy
Within 24 hours of the original booking time, any changes will only be subject to any difference in fare. If you cancel your flight within 24 hours of the original booking and at least 7 days prior to departure, the full cost of your flight will be refunded to you in the original form of payment. If your travel was scheduled within seven (7) days of your booking, the full cost of your flight will be refunded to you in the form of travel credit minus any cancellation fees that may apply, except in the case of flights that are scheduled to depart within 24 hours of the time of booking (i.e., same-day flights). The refund will be processed based on the fare level purchased. All cancellation fees are calculated per flight, per passenger plus additional taxes. For details on how the refund will be processed, please see the applicable tariffs.

incorporation of travel tariff
This Agreement, and any reservations made through the Flair website, are subject in all respects to the following: Flair service provider carrier’s LOCAL DOMESTIC TARIFF in respect of the transportation of guests and goods between points in Canada; Flair service provider carrier’s LOCAL TRANSBORDER CHARTER TARIFF in respect of the transportation of guests and goods between points in Canada and points outside of Canada; and in respect of points outside of Canada, such other tariffs that Flair has filed with applicable governmental authorities. These tariffs specify the rules and regulations concerning the rules, rates, regulations and conditions under which Flair will provide transportation services to guests and their goods, including, without limitation:

fare classes and rates;
the carriage of persons with disabilities;
the acceptance of minors;
reservation, cancellation, change, refund and credit terms;
refusal to transport guests or goods;
limits of liability respecting the transportation of guests and goods.
These tariffs are incorporated by reference into the Flair website Reservations Agreement. If there is a conflict between the provisions found in the Flair website Reservations Agreement and any applicable tariff, the terms and provisions of the tariff shall apply.

limitation of liability
Flair strives to ensure information is accurate and current. However, we make no representations to you about the accuracy of the information contained on the Flair website, or the reliability of the reservations services provided herein. This includes, without limitation, the availability of seating on any particular flight regarding fare class, flight number, price, departure and return dates and times, connecting flights and the like. Flair will accept no liability to you for any damages you may suffer, and in no event shall Flair be liable to you for any direct, indirect, punitive, incidental, special or consequential damages arising out of or in any way connected with your use of the Flair website or the delay or inability to use this website, or for any information obtained or reservation made through the use of this website, whether based on contract, tort, strict liability or otherwise.

governing law
This Flair Website Reservations Agreement is governed in all respects by the laws of the province of Alberta. You consent to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of courts in the City of Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, in all disputes arising out of or relating to the use by you of the Flair website. Use of the Flair website in any jurisdiction not giving effect to all provisions of these terms and conditions is unauthorized.

privacy
I have read and understand the Privacy Policy and I consent to the collection, use and disclosure of personal information as described in the policy.

Please note that Flair collects and archives your IP address to use and disclose for identification and legal purposes in the event of unauthorized use or misuse of a credit or payment card fraud related to an online booking.

relationship
You agree no joint venture, partnership, employment, consulting, or agency relationship exists between you and Flair as a result of the Flair website Reservations Agreement or your use of the Flair website.

enforcement
Flair performance of its obligations under this agreement is subject to existing laws and legal process. Nothing contained in this agreement derogates from Flair rights or obligations to comply with law enforcement requests or requirements relating to your use of the Flair website or information provided to, or gathered by Flair with respect to such use.

severability
If any part of the Flair website Reservation Terms and Conditions is determined to be invalid or unenforceable pursuant to applicable law, including, but not limited to, the limitation of liability set out herein, the remainder of this Agreement shall nonetheless continue in effect.

help and feedback
If, at any time, you require the assistance of a Flair representative in regards to using the Flair website, or to help you to understand the terms and provisions of this Flair website Reservation Terms and Conditions, or you wish to provide us with some feedback, a Flair representative would be pleased to help you. Please chat with us via our chatbot.