Contact information Frontier Airlines - https://frontiercswprod.powerappsportals.com/contact-us/request-complaint-form/

Contract of Carriage
 Effective Date: 04/10/23
Pg. 1 of 25 Table of Contents
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
1. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
2. Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
3. Refusal to Transport and Special Conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
4. International Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
5. Child Passengers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
6. Service Animals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
7. Smoking . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
8. Tickets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
9. Ticket Validity and Itinerary Changes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
10.Check-in Times . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
11.Fares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
12.Checked Baggage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
13.Carry-On Baggage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
14.Conditions and Charges for Special Items . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
15.Limitations of Liability. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
16.Claim Limits and Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
17.Failure to Operate on Schedule or Failure to Carry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
18.Denied Boarding Compensation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
19.Refunds; No-Show Cancellations and Service Charges. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
20.Currency and Mode of Payment and Fees. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
21.Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
22.Contingency Plan for Extended Tarmac Delays . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Rev83 04/10/23
I
Table of Contents
Section Subject Page
Introduction Pg. 2 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
1. Introduction
25
The following terms and conditions as well as such additional terms and conditions presented on Frontier Airlines'
website, fare rules, published schedules or printed on or in any ticket or ticket-less travel authorization apply to
all tickets issued for travel on flights operated by or for Frontier Airlines, Inc. (“Frontier”), as well as that
transportation, regardless of whether such ticket was sold by Frontier or its authorized agents or whether such
ticket is used (“Contract of Carriage”).
This document is available for public inspection at all Frontier locations. Copies may be obtained by visiting the
Frontier's web site at www.FlyFrontier.com or by writing to: Frontier Airlines, Inc., Customer Relations, 4545 Airport
Way, Denver, CO 80239.
2. Definitions
A. Codeshare -- A marketing and business arrangement in which two airlines “share” the same flight (which
might include connecting legs). One airline places its designator code and flight number on a flight operated
by the other airline, and markets and sells tickets for that shared flight as part of its published schedule.
B. Code -- The U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
C. DOT -- U.S. Department of Transportation.
D. FAA -- U.S. Federal Aviation Administration.
E. Fare Rules -- The rules and requirements associated with a ticket.
F. IATA -- International Air Transport Association.
G. No-Show Cancellation -- The automatic cancellation of a passenger’s ticket upon such passenger failing to
either (i) check-in for such passenger’s flight, or (ii) board such passenger’s flight, in either instance within
the required times. The automatic cancellation will apply to all subsequent flights, including return flights, on
the itinerary. Presentation of a ticket by someone other than the named passenger renders the ticket void
and the ticket will then be treated as a No-Show Cancellation for all purposes of this Contract of Carriage.
(See section 19. )
H. Qualified Individual with a Disability -- An individual with a disability who: (i) has a physical or mental
impairment that, on a permanent or temporary basis, substantially limits one or more major life activities; (ii)
has a record of such an impairment; or, (iii) is regarded as having such an impairment, as further defined in
14 CFR 382.5.
I. Standby Passenger -- A passenger boarded subject to availability of seat space at departure time and only
after all passengers having confirmed reservations for the flight have been boarded.
J. Stopover -- An intentional interruption in a passenger’s trip in excess of 4 hours at a point between the place
of departure and the final destination.
K. STRETCH Seat - A seat located in the front rows and exit rows of certain Frontier aircraft that have additional
legroom. These seats are made available to passengers for a fee.
L. Ticket -The record of agreement, including electronic tickets, for passenger air transportation provided by the
airline under certain terms and conditions to the passenger as described on the ticket, in the fare rules, and
in this Contract of Carriage.
M. TSA -- U.S. Transportation Security Administration.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 3 of 25 Refusal to Transport and Special Conditions
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
3. Refusal to Transport and Special Conditions
A. Frontier may refuse to provide transportation to any person and may require that a passenger leave an
aircraft or be removed from an aircraft for the following reasons, in which case Frontier will provide a refund
of the amount paid for their ticket, which will be the limit of Frontier's liability.
1) Government Request -- To comply with a government requisition of space or request for emergency
transportation (e.g., in connection with national defense or natural disaster (actual, threatened, or
reported)).
2) No Seat for Safety Assistant - If a passenger requires a safety assistant (see section 3. B.6) and there is
not a seat available on the applicable flight and, thus, both the passenger and the safety assistant are
denied transportation. For purposes of determining whether a seat is available for a safety assistant, the
safety assistant is deemed to have checked in at the same time as the individual with the disability.
B. Frontier may refuse to provide transportation to any person and may require that a passenger leave an
aircraft or be removed from an aircraft for the following reasons, in which case no refund will be due and
Frontier will have no further liability.
1) Government Direction - To comply with a direction of a government official acting in their official capacity
to remove or not provide transportation to a specific individual.
2) Identification -- The passenger refuses to produce a government-issued identification as required by
Frontier's representatives or as required by law.
3) MyFrontier Account; Card on File - The passenger refuses to create a MyFrontier account or have a credit
or debit card on file with Frontier, each of which is active at the time of travel. Any fees owed to Frontier
may be unilaterally charged by Frontier using the card or other method of payment that is on file with
Frontier.
4) Balance Due - If at the time of travel there is any balance unpaid to Frontier for ticket or optional services
charges, the ticket and all optional services may be canceled, whether or not a passenger has been
notified of such cancellation.
5) Passports/Visas -- The passenger intending to travel across any international border fails to possess and
present all valid documents (passports, visas, certificates, etc.) required by the laws of the countries
from, over, or into which the passenger will fly, which will in all cases be the passenger’s exclusive
responsibility.
6) Failure to Check In or Appear - The passenger fails to check-in for their flight within the required times or
appear for boarding of that flight within the required times. (The ticket will be deemed to be a No-Show
Cancellation (see Section 2.G) and canceled. All subsequent flights, including return flights, on the
itinerary will also be treated as No-Show Cancellations (see Section 20)).
7) Special Medical Requirements -- The passenger will be refused transport if the passenger requires
medical equipment be used in flight or services (i) not provided by Frontier, (ii) that may not be used in
flight, or (iii) does not have sufficient supplies therefor. The foregoing includes any medical equipment
that would require use of power from the aircraft, medical equipment for which the passenger does not
have sufficient batteries for the duration of the flight plus unexpected delays. Passengers must be able
to sit in a single seat with the seat in the full and upright position, which precludes passengers that must
lie flat or that must be transported on a stretcher. Frontier does not provide medical oxygen.
Rev83 04/10/23
Refusal to Transport and Special Conditions Pg. 4 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
EXCEPTION: A respiratory device (e.g., ventilator, respirator, CPAP machine or Portable Oxygen
Concentrator) is considered an assistive device and is permitted as carry-on or checked baggage at no
charge provided that all batteries must be transported in carry-on baggage and must be packaged in
a manner that protects them from physical damage and short circuits, and provided that if the device
is to be used in flight: (i) the passenger must carry enough fully-charged batteries to power the device
throughout the entire journey including all ground time (between connections), the duration of the flight
and for unexpected delays, (ii) the device must be approved by the FAA with stickers indicating such,
and (iii) prior to traveling, the passenger must complete the Portable Oxygen Concentrator Medical
Authorization (form 30881) available on Frontier's website or obtain a medical statement from the
passenger’s physician addressing the points on the POC Medical Authorization form.
NOTE: Passengers are referred to 14 CFR Part 121, SFAR No. 106 for regulations regarding and
a list of Portable Oxygen Concentrators that are approved for use on aircraft.
8) Qualified Individual with a Disability -- If transportation is refused because the passenger fails to comply
with the following: Qualified individuals with a disability will be transported in accordance with the
conditions and requirements of 14 C.F.R. § 382 unless the carriage of such individuals may impair the
safety of the flight or violate Federal Aviation Regulations. Pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 382.113, Frontier does
not provide certain extensive in flight special services such as assistance in actual eating, assistance
within the lavatory or at the individual's seat with elimination functions, or provision of medical services.
Moreover, pursuant to 14 C.F.R. § 382.29, a qualified individual with a disability may be required to be
accompanied by a safety assistant as a condition of being provided air transportation in any of the
following circumstances: (i) when the individual, because of a mental disability, is unable to comprehend
or respond appropriately to safety instructions from employees, including the required safety briefing, (ii)
when the individual has a mobility impairment so severe that the individual is unable to assist in the
passenger’s own evacuation of the aircraft, (iii) when the individual has both severe hearing and severe
vision impairments, if the individual cannot establish some means of communication with employees
adequate to permit transmission of the required safety briefing, (iv) on the day of departure, if it is
determined that an individual meeting the criteria of (i), (ii) or (iii) must travel with a safety assistant,
contrary to the individual's self-assessment that the passenger is capable of traveling independently, the
safety assistant will not be charged to accompany the individual with a disability.
9) Prisoners - Frontier will not transport any prisoners under any circumstances.
10) Proper Attire - Any passenger who is barefoot and over 3 years of age, unless required to be barefoot for
medical reasons, or who is not otherwise fully clothed in clothing that is not lewd or obscene, threatening,
intimidating, or would be objectionable to reasonable persons.
11) Malodorous Condition - Any passenger who has a severe or offensive body odor that is not due to a
disability.
12) Intoxication - Any passenger who appears to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 5 of 25 Refusal to Transport and Special Conditions
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
13) Communicable Disease or Infection - A passenger who has a communicable disease or infection (that is
known or reasonably believed to pose a direct threat to the health or safety of others in the course of
flight) may be denied boarding by Frontier. If such a passenger presents a medical certificate dated within
10 days of the date of the flight for which it is being presented that includes specific conditions under
which the individual can travel and not pose a direct threat to the health and safety of other persons,
transportation will be provided to such individual unless it is not reasonable or feasible to implement the
conditions set forth in the medical certificate as necessary to prevent the transmission of the disease or
infection to other persons in the normal course of flight. Unacceptable measures include, but are not
limited to: a required separation between the passenger and other persons, use of medical equipment
not permitted to be used on the aircraft, or a requirement that any other passenger wear protective gear.
a) 2019 Novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) – Frontier may screen passengers during the check-in and
boarding process, and may deny boarding to passengers who Frontier reasonably believes do not
meet Frontier’s COVID-19 screening measures. Screening will include, but is not be limited to:
completion of a health acknowledgment, required wearing of facial coverings, and submission to a
temperature check. Notwithstanding Section 11 above, a passenger who presents a medical
certificate dated within 10 days of the date of the flight for which it is being presented may be denied
boarding if, on the planned date of travel, the passenger fails to meet Frontier’s COVID-19 screening
measures.
14) Refusal or Inability to Sit - Any passenger who is unwilling or unable to sit in an upright position during
takeoff and landing with the seat belt fastened.
15) Failure to Follow Instructions - Any passenger who refuses to obey instructions from an employee or
crewmember.
16) Use of Ticket Issued to Other Person - Any passenger who attempts to use a ticket not issued to that
person. Transfer of a ticket by a passenger to another person is not permitted. (This ticket will be deemed
to be a No-Show Cancellation (see Section 2.G) and canceled. All subsequent flights, including return
flights, on the itinerary will also be treated as No-Show Cancellations (see Section 20)).
17) Interference - Any passenger who interferes with any member of the flight crew in pursuit of their duties
or attempts to do so.
18) Smoking - Any passenger who smokes or attempts to smoke on an aircraft.
19) Weapon - Any passenger who, except as permitted by law (see 49 C.F.R. § 1544.219), wears or has on or
about their persons concealed or unconcealed, deadly or dangerous weapons.
20) Purchase in Violation of Contract of Carriage - Any passenger that purchases a ticket in violation of this
Contract of Carriage or any fare rule. In addition, Frontier may (i) invalidate the tickets or any other that
may have been purchased in the same manner, (ii) cancel any remaining portion of the passenger's
itinerary, or (iii) confiscate any unused portions of the ticket.
21) General Refusal - Any person whom Frontier has informed is not permitted to purchase transportation
from Frontier.
C. Refusal to Sell Transportation - Frontier may refuse to sell transportation to any person, including the
following, and may inform such persons that they are not permitted to purchase transportation from Frontier:
1) Refusal to Comply - A person who refuses to comply with instruction given by employees or
representatives prohibiting the solicitation of items for sale or purchase, including airline tickets, passes,
or travel award certificates.
2) Prior Conduct - A person who has disrupted airline operations, mistreated employees, or has not complied
with Frontier's policies or otherwise violates this Contract of Carriage.
Rev83 04/10/23
International Transportation Pg. 6 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
3) Misconduct - A person who has committed a fraudulent act against Frontier.
D. Customer of Size - If, in Frontier's sole judgment, a passenger is unable to sit in an aircraft seat without lifting
either or both armrests and occupying all or a portion of the adjacent seats, or encroaching into the aisle or
adjacent seats, the passenger will be required to purchase a ticket for an additional seat (or more, if required
to accommodate the passenger) at the price then applicable. If sufficient, contiguous seats are not available,
the passenger will be given the option to switch to flights on which such seats are available (for which
applicable fees will apply) or be given a refund.
E. Allergies (Peanut, Pet, or Chemical) - Items are not removed from the aircraft to accommodate a passenger's
allergy to a particular food, substance, or chemical. A variety of snacks are served on board many flights,
including products that may contain peanuts or other nuts. A “peanut-free” or “chemical-free” environment
cannot be provided to passengers onboard the aircraft. Passengers are advised to consult a healthcare
professional regarding the risks of onboard exposure to any allergen.
F. Pregnancy - Passengers who are pregnant are urged to consult with their doctor on whether it is safe to travel
by air, including with due consideration to the possibility of turbulence, cabin pressurization, significantly
increased risk of deep vein thrombosis associated with pregnancy, and lack of ready access to medical care.
This is particularly important for women in their ninth month of pregnancy, who are urged to obtain an
examination from their physician shortly before flying to confirm air travel will be safe. Women with a history
of complications or premature delivery should not fly if pregnant. By traveling with Frontier, pregnant women
acknowledge and accept these risks. Different policies for passengers who are pregnant may apply on any
leg of a codeshare flight that is operated by the codeshare airline.
G. Electronic Surveillance of Passengers and Baggage - Passengers and their baggage are subject to inspection,
including via electronic means, with or without the passenger's consent or knowledge.
H. Diversion While in Flight or Return to Gate- In the event that Frontier is required to divert an aircraft while in
flight or return to gate because a passenger requires medical attention or due to the passenger's conduct,
the passenger may be required to reimburse Frontier for the costs that Frontier incurs, including the cost to
accommodate other passengers. The amount due will be as determined by Frontier.
4. International Transportation
A. Compliance with Regulations - Passengers shall comply with all laws, regulations, orders, demands, or travel
requirements of countries to be flown from, into, or over. Frontier is not liable for any aid or information given
by any agent or employee to any passenger in connection with obtaining necessary documents or complying
therewith (including as may be provided in this Contract of Carriage) or the consequences to any passenger
resulting from the passenger’s failure to obtain such documents or to comply with such laws, regulations,
orders, demands, requirements, or instructions.
B. Compliance with Foreign Country Regulations regarding Importation of Goods - Passengers shall comply with
all laws, regulations, orders, demands, or travel requirements of countries to be flown from, into, or over.
Frontier is not liable for the consequences to any passenger resulting from the passenger’s failure to comply
with such laws, regulations, orders, demands, requirements, or instructions.
C. Customs Inspection - If required, a passenger must attend the inspection of the passenger’s baggage,
checked or unchecked, by customs or other government officials. Frontier accepts no responsibility to the
passenger if they fail to observe this condition.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 7 of 25 Child Passengers
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
D. Government Regulation - No liability shall attach to Frontier if, based on what it understands to be applicable
law, government regulation, demand, order, or requirement, it refuses to carry passenger. If, however, it is
ultimately determined that Frontier was incorrect, the limit of its liability will be to refund the amount paid for
the ticket on which transportation was refused.
E. International Operations - Frontier is required to make an attempt to obtain emergency contact information
from a passenger traveling into or out of a foreign country. If a passenger refuses to provide emergency
contact information, Frontier will document the attempt and may require the passenger to sign the document.
F. Indemnification - A passenger shall indemnify Frontier for any loss, damage, or expense suffered or incurred
by Frontier by reason of the passenger's failure to possess any required travel documents or other failure to
comply with the provisions of this section, including the applicable fare if Frontier is required to transport the
passenger home from a country. Frontier is not liable to the passenger for loss or expense due to the
passenger's failure to comply with this provision.
G. Baggage Limitation - Passengers shall comply with all laws, regulations, orders, demands, or travel
requirements regarding baggage size and weight limitations of countries to be flown from, into, or over.
Frontier is not liable for the consequences to any passenger resulting from the passenger’s failure to comply
with such laws, regulations, orders, demands, requirements, or instructions.
5. Child Passengers
A. Accompanied Children -- Children from 7 days through 14 years of age may travel with another passenger who
is at least 15 years old.
B. Unaccompanied Children
1) Frontier does not allow children under the age of 15 years old to travel unaccompanied; they must be
accompanied by a passenger who is at least 15 years old. Passengers who are 15 years old or older may
travel on Frontier without an adult companion. A birth certificate, official school ID, or other form of ID may
be requested for age verification purposes if the child's age appears questionable.
NOTE: Passengers under age 18 traveling without both parents may need additional documentation
to travel across international borders, depending on the country's requirements.
C. Infant and Child Fares (except as otherwise provided in a specific fare rule) are as follows:
1) Infants under 2 years of age are accepted, without charge, when the infant does not occupy a separate
seat and is accompanied by a fare-paying passenger at least 15 years old. A birth certificate may be
requested for age verification purposes if the infant’s age appears questionable.
NOTE: Due to supplemental equipment considerations, the number of infants accepted per flight
may be limited based on aircraft type.
2) One adult may accompany up to two infants under the age of 2.
a) When an adult passenger is traveling with two infants under 2 years of age, a seat must be purchased
for at least one infant. The fare is the same as an adult fare.
3) Children 7 days - 14 years of age occupying a seat are charged the same fare as an adult passenger.
NOTE: Passengers under age 2 traveling as lap children (not purchasing a seat) are subject to
international taxes. These taxes must be paid prior to boarding the originating departure
flight.
Rev83 04/10/23
Child Passengers Pg. 8 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
D. Child Restraint Systems - Frontier accepts infant and child restraint systems (car seat or harness) approved
for air travel that fit in the applicable aircraft seat with the arm rest down that meet the following
requirements:
1) Approved seats manufactured to U.S. standards between January 1, 1981, and February 25, 1985, must
bear the label: “This child restraint system conforms to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety
standards.”
2) Seats manufactured to U.S. standards on or after February 26, 1985, must bear two labels: (i) “This child
restraint system conforms to all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards” and (ii) “THIS
RESTRAINT IS CERTIFIED FOR USE IN MOTOR VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT” in red lettering.
3) Seats not meeting the above criteria must bear a label or markings showing: (i) the seat was approved by
a foreign government, (ii) the seat was manufactured under the standards of the United Nations, (iii) the
seat or child restraint device furnished by the certificate holder was approved by the FAA through Type
Certificate or Supplemental Type Certificate, or (iv) the seat or child restraint device was approved by the
FAA in accordance with 14 C.F.R § 21.8(d), or FAA Technical Standard Order C-100b, or a later version.
NOTE 1: A child under the age of 2 must be held in the passenger's lap or be seated in an approved
car seat for taxi, takeoff, and landing.
NOTE 2: Frontier encourages all adults traveling with infants under 2 years of age to secure the
infant in an approved car seat or harness in the infant's own purchased seat.
4) Child Harness - The FAA-approved AMSafe Aviation C.A.R.E.S. child harness device may be used on-board
the aircraft. It is designed for children weighing between 22 and 44 pounds (between 10 and 20
kilograms) and must bear the label “FAA Approved in accordance with 14 CFR 21.305(d) approved for
aircraft use only.”
5) Car Seats - A car seat may be used by a child between the ages of 7 days and 2 years if seat space is
available after boarding, even if a seat has not been purchased for the child. A car seat may be used by
any child when a separate seat has been purchased. To use a car seat onboard the aircraft:
a) It must bear manufacturer labels identifying approval for aircraft use, as described in subsection (1)
and (2) above.
b) It must have a solid seat and solid back.
c) It must have restraint straps installed to hold the child in the car seat.
d) The child may not exceed the weight limitation of the car seat.
e) It may not be placed in the emergency exit rows, in the seats immediately in front of or behind the exit
rows, or in any seat that has an airbag seatbelt installed.
f) Window seats are the preferred location for a car seat, so it does not impede a passenger's movement
or egress into the aisle. Other seat assignments are permitted provided the car seat is not obstructing
the egress of any passenger.
g) It must be secured by a seat belt at all times.
6) Booster Seats - Booster seats may be carried onboard aircraft but must be stowed in an overhead
compartment or underneath the seat for takeoff and landing. Once the aircraft has reached cruising
altitude, the passenger may use the seat during the flight. The booster seat must be stowed when the
aircraft begins its descent.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 9 of 25 Service Animals
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
6. Service Animals
A. General - The following categories of service animals are allowed in the cabin without charge:
1) Trained service dogs that assist passengers with disabilities. Passengers traveling with a service dog
must complete and submit the Department of Transportation Service Animal Air Transportation Form,
attesting to the dog’s health, behavior, and training. For reservations booked more than 48 hours prior to
travel, passengers must submit the completed form no later than 48 hours prior to travel. For reservations
booked less than 48 hours prior to travel, passengers must submit the completed form in person to a
Customer Service Agent upon arrival at the airport. Only dogs will be accepted as trained service animals.
The animal must be at least 4 months old. The passenger is required to keep the animal under control at
all times, with the animal on a leash or harness while in the boarding area and onboard the aircraft.
Psychiatric support animals are recognized as trained service animals. Comfort animals, companionship
animals, or any other non-task-trained animals are not recognized as service animals. Service animals in
training will not be accepted.
2) Service Animals trained in explosive detection, contraband search, or search and rescue on active duty
and traveling for that purpose will be accepted for travel. The passenger must present credible
documentation the animal is traveling for that purpose.
B. Seating - The passenger may sit anywhere, except in an emergency exit row, provided the animal does not
obstruct an aisle or egress of passengers in an emergency evacuation. The animal must fit under the seat or
on the passenger's lap. If the passenger is seated in row 1, the animal will not be allowed on the passenger's
lap. The animal may not occupy a seat. An animal that cannot or does not comply with the foregoing will not
be accepted.
C. International - Restrictions for travel with an animal to international destinations vary by country. Frontier
recommends contacting the appropriate embassy or consulate before purchasing a ticket for travel with a
service animal or emotional support animal. Different policies may apply on any leg of a codeshare flight that
is operated by the codeshare airline.
D. Oxygen - No oxygen will be administered to a service animal in the event of an emergency.
7. Smoking
A. Smoking is prohibited on all flights.
B. Federal law prohibits tampering with, disabling, or destroying any smoke detector installed in an aircraft
lavatory.
C. The use of electronic smoking devices is prohibited at all times on all aircraft.
8. Tickets
A. A passenger is entitled to transportation only upon presentation of a valid electronic ticket (e-ticket). The
ticket entitles the passenger to transportation between the point of origin and the destination.
NOTE: Paper tickets are not issued on Frontier ticket stock. Only electronic tickets are issued for travel on
Frontier. However, paper tickets from other airlines may be accepted for travel at Frontier's
discretion.
Rev83 04/10/23
Ticket Validity and Itinerary Changes Pg. 10 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
B. Tickets are honored only in the order in which they are issued.
C. The following practices are prohibited:
1) Back to Back Ticketing -- The purchase or use of portions of tickets from two or more tickets issued as
round-trip fares or other scheme for circumventing minimum stay requirements.
2) Throwaway Ticketing -- The purchase or use of round-trip tickets for one-way travel.
3) Hidden City/Point Beyond Ticketing -- The purchase or use of a ticket from a point before the passenger's
actual origin or to a point beyond the passenger's actual destination.
D. A ticket which has not been properly issued or paid for, or which has been altered, mutilated, or improperly
issued by an unauthorized party is not valid for travel or refund.
E. The purchaser of a ticket and the passenger intending to use it are responsible for ensuring that the ticket
accurately states the name of the passenger.
F. A ticket may only be used by the person named on the ticket. Frontier is not liable to the purchaser of a ticket
if the ticket is used by someone other than the person named on the ticket. Tickets may not be purchased for
the transport of items of baggage that are too large to be stowed safely in a suitable baggage compartment
in the aircraft cabin or under a passenger seat (such as, but not limited to, musical instruments, electronic
equipment).
G. Presentation of a ticket by someone other than the named passenger renders the ticket void. The ticket is
subject to confiscation, and the ticket will then be treated as a No-Show Cancellation for all purposes of this
Contract of Carriage. (See section 19. )
H. An additional processing fee may apply to each ticket purchased or changed via Frontier's reservation center.
9. Ticket Validity and Itinerary Changes
A. Period of Validity
1) Tickets issued by Frontier are valid for transportation only on the flights and dates shown on the ticket
and have no value and are not valid for transportation thereafter. If a passenger cancels a ticket before
the scheduled flight departure time, the value of the ticket less a service fee and certain other carrier
charges will be retained for 90 days from the date of cancellation of the ticket in the form of a credit. The
credit has no cash or refund value and may only be applied to subsequent tickets on Frontier flights for
the same passenger as the original ticket. In the case of a No-Show Cancellation, see section 19.
2) Except as required by law or as provided in this Contract of Carriage, Frontier shall have no obligation of
any kind to reschedule any passengers who cancels a ticket before the scheduled flight departure time
or to provide them with any refund or other credit for unused tickets.
3) Except as required by law or as provided in this Contract of Carriage, in the case of a No-Show
Cancellation, Frontier shall have no obligation of any kind to reschedule any such passengers on any other
flight, and the rules respecting No-Show Cancellations shall apply (see section 19. ).
B. Except for tickets purchased for travel within 7 days (168 hours) of purchase, all tickets may be canceled
within twenty-four (24) hours of the purchase and a full refund will be given. After that time, except for tickets
and services that are purchased as refundable, all tickets and optional charges or services are nonrefundable.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 11 of 25 Check-in Times
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
10. Check-in Times
A. Airport Check-In - It is the passenger's responsibility to arrive at the airport, taking into consideration travel
time both to and within the applicable airport, with enough time to complete check-in, to drop off any checked
bags with a Frontier representative or Frontier-provided system, and to complete processing through the
security check point.
B. Passengers can check in beginning 2 hours before departure at Frontier's airport check-in counters or 24
hours before departure at www.FlyFrontier.com or on the Frontier mobile app, if the reservation is eligible for
online or mobile app check-in.
C. Check-In Times
1) For domestic flights (originating and to a destination within the United States), the passenger must be
checked in with a printed boarding pass or a Frontier mobile app boarding pass in-hand at least 45
minutes prior to scheduled departure whether or not checking bags.
a) Effective August 16, 2023, all passengers must be checked in with a printed boarding pass or a
Frontier mobile app digital boarding pass in-hand, and with checked bags, if any, presented to and
accepted by a Frontier representative or Frontier-provided system, at least 60 minutes prior to
scheduled departure.
2) For international flights, the passenger must be checked in with a printed boarding pass or a Frontier
mobile app digital boarding pass in-hand and with checked bags, if any, presented to and accepted by a
Frontier representative or Frontier-provided system, at least 60 minutes prior to scheduled departure.
D. Time Limit for Checking Bags - Baggage to be checked must be presented at the airport within the minimum
check-in time. Passengers who present baggage after the minimum check-in time may be refused transport.
At some airports, the counter may close at the check-in cut-off time, in such cases, passenger and baggage
check-in are not permitted after the check-in deadline. In the event that baggage is accepted after the
minimum check-in time, the passenger will be liable for any costs and fees for the bag to be delivered in the
event that it is not carried on the same flight.
E. Availability for Boarding - Tickets and seat assignments are subject to cancellation for passengers who fail to
make themselves available for boarding at the departure gate at least 20 minutes prior to scheduled
departure.
F. Failure to Check In or Appear - If a passenger fails to check in or board the flight within the required time, the
ticket will be deemed to be a No-Show Cancellation (see Section 2.G) and canceled. All subsequent flights,
including return flights, on the itinerary will also be treated as No-Show Cancellations (see Section 20).
G. Misconnected Passengers - The ticket of any passenger who does not meet the minimum check-in time due
to the late arrival of an inbound connecting flight operating by Frontier will be accommodated on the next
available flight operated by Frontier to the same destination. Frontier will not provide transportation on
another airline or reimburse the cost of transportation purchased from another airline. The ticket of any
passenger who does not meet the minimum check-in time due to the late arrival of an inbound connecting
flight operated by any other airline will be canceled and no refund or accommodation on another flight will be
due unless available and purchased at the applicable price by the passenger.
11. Fares
A. Fares apply for transportation only between the airports for which they are published.
Rev83 04/10/23
Checked Baggage Pg. 12 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
B. When a passenger requires connecting service with arrival at one airport and departure from another airport,
transportation between those airports must be arranged by and at the expense of the passenger.
C. Fares are subject to change without notice until a ticket is issued.
12. Checked Baggage
A. Fees applicable to checked baggage:
1) Baggage fees apply to each checked bag.
2) Active U.S. military personnel, with Common Access Card (CAC), may check two bags at no charge for all
types of tickets. Overweight and oversize charges for the first two free bags are also waived. This policy is
for active U.S. military personnel only and does not extend to family members or traveling companions.
B. Baggage Allowance Exceptions - The following may be checked or carried on at no charge and do not count
toward the passenger's baggage allowance.
1) Medical Assistive Devices - Canes, crutches, braces, wheelchairs, etc. for the use of the passenger. There
is no limit to the number of mobility aids a passenger may check. Medical assistive devices must be
packed separately, in protective packaging, for baggage fees to be waived.
2) Wheelchairs - In compliance with federal law, wheelchairs or other types of mobility devices for the
passenger are accepted as checked baggage in addition to the passenger's baggage allowance at no
additional charge. Certain Frontier aircraft can accommodate up to two wheelchairs up to 40 inches (101
cm) high, 50 inches (127 cm) long, 13 inches (33 cm) wide, and weighing no more than 70 pounds (31
kilograms) in the cabin of the aircraft on a first-come, first-served basis. Wheelchairs carried in the cabin
of the aircraft will be brought to the front of the aircraft after all other passengers have deplaned.
3) Essential Infant or Child Items - Child restraint devices, car seats, strollers, diaper bags, and other
essential baby items when the infant is traveling. These items must be packed separately, in protective
packaging, for baggage fees to be waived.
C. Acceptable Baggage - Frontier will accept for transportation as baggage such personal property necessary or
appropriate for the wear, use, comfort, or convenience of the passenger for the purpose of the trip, subject
to the following:
1) Checked Baggage Size and Weight:
a) Excess baggage charge will be applied to any checked baggage that exceeds the standard weight or
dimension. Standard baggage size is defined as maximum of 62 inches (157 cm) in linear dimension
(height plus length plus width).
Standard baggage weight is defined as:
– For tickets purchased before January 18, 2022, maximum of 50 pounds (22.6 kilograms).
– For tickets purchased on or after January 18, 2022, and travel completed before March 1,
2022, maximum of 50 pounds (22.6 kilograms).
– For tickets purchased on or after January 18, 2022, and travel on or after March 1, 2022,
maximum of 40 pounds (18.1 kilograms).
b) Baggage weighing 100 or more pounds (45 kilograms) or exceeding 110 linear inches will not be
accepted, with the exception of assistive devices or musical instruments.
2) The TSA website maintains a list of items that passengers are not permitted to check in baggage. See
www.tsa.gov for a complete list. Baggage containing any items on that list will not be accepted.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 13 of 25 Carry-On Baggage
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
3) An item for transportation not suitably packaged to withstand ordinary handling and turbulence, or of a
size, weight, or character that renders it unsuitable for transportation will not be accepted.
4) The passenger is responsible for ensuring that all items packed in checked baggage are properly
packaged and padded to resist handling and turbulence. (Refer to section 16. )
5) All baggage is subject to inspection by Frontier. Frontier is not, however, obligated to perform an
inspection. Frontier will refuse to transport or will remove baggage if the passenger refuses to submit the
baggage for inspection.
6) Frontier will not accept baggage or other personal property for storage.
7) Frontier will check baggage only when the passenger presents a valid ticket for transportation on the
applicable flight.
8) The passenger's name, address, and telephone number must appear on the baggage.
9) Frontier has the right to refuse to transport baggage on any flight other than the one carrying the
passenger.
10) Baggage will not be checked:
a) To a point that is not reflected on the passenger's ticket.
b) Other than the passenger's destination on the applicable flight, but if the flight is a connecting flight,
to the final destination, but if that connecting flight is scheduled to depart from an airport different
from the one at which the passenger is scheduled to arrive then only to the destination of the first leg.
11) Live animals are not accepted as checked baggage.
12) Agricultural items, perishable items, or products that do not conform with customs or agricultural
government law at the flight's destination will not be accepted.
13) Frontier will not accept for carriage any restricted/hazardous materials as defined in the DOT Hazardous
Materials Regulations (49 C.F.R. §§ 171-177) and IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations. Examples of such
goods are (i) liquor products over 140 proof, (ii) gasoline-powered tools, (iii) compressed gases, (iv)
corrosives (such as acids and wet batteries), (v) explosives (such as dynamite and fireworks), (vi)
flammables (such as matches and lighter fuels), (vii) poisons, and (viii) magnetic and radioactive
materials. Electronic smoking devices (commonly referred to as e-cigarettes or personal vaporizers) pose
a safety risk and are not permitted in checked baggage. These items are permitted in carry-on baggage.
Spare lithium batteries are not allowed in checked baggage.
14) Perishable items must be packaged properly such that they cannot leak through their packaging. (Refer
to section 16. )
D. Codeshare Flights – The baggage policy of the airline on which a passenger originally booked the codeshare
flight will apply to the entire itinerary.
13. Carry-On Baggage
A. Passengers are permitted up to two carry-on items:
1) One free personal item not larger than 8" x 14" x 18" (20 cm x 35 cm x 45 cm) that must fit within the
personal item portion of the bag sizer.
Rev83 04/10/23
Conditions and Charges for Special Items Pg. 14 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
2) One carry-on item not larger than 10"H x 16"W x 24"L (25 cm x 40 cm x 114 cm) and weighing not more
than 35 pounds (15 kilograms) that may be placed in the overhead compartment or under the seat. A fee
for the carry-on item may apply based on the ticket type purchased. Active U.S. military personnel, with
Common Access Card (CAC), may take a carry-on item free of charge for all types of tickets.
3) The size and weight of an item may be measured using manual or automated methods. If a bag sizer is
used, items must fit completely into the applicable portion, including any wheels and handles, and
without the passenger using undue force, as determined at Frontier’s sole direction. If an item exceeds
allowed dimensions, the item may be gate checked or considered to be a carry-on item, in each case to
which the applicable fee will apply. Any fees owed may be unilaterally charged by Frontier using the card
or other method of payment that is on file with Frontier.
B. The TSA website maintains a list of items that passengers are not permitted to carry onboard an aircraft. See
www.tsa.gov for a complete list. Carry-on items containing any items on that list will not be accepted.
C. The passenger is responsible for all items brought on board the aircraft. Items must be stored under a seat
or in the overhead compartment.
D. Use of Portable Electronic Devices (PEDs)
1) Small authorized PEDs are devices under 2 pounds and are of a size that can easily be placed in a seat
pocket along with the other materials that are normally found in the seat pocket (Passenger Safety
Information Card, Menu or airsickness bag). They include devices like tablets, readers, and mobile
phones and may be used during all phases of flight when in airplane mode including taxi, takeoff, and
landing. However, if using them during taxi, takeoff, and landing, you must secure these devices by
holding them, putting them in your pocket or holster, or placing them in a seatback pocket.
2) Large authorized PEDs are devices 2 pounds or more such as full-size laptops. They must be turned off
and stowed during taxi, takeoff, and landing. You may stow them under the seat in front of you or in an
overhead compartment. These devices may be used above 10,000 feet when authorized by a Flight
Attendant announcement.
3) On all flights operating outside U.S. airspace, PEDs cannot be used during taxi, takeoff, and landing, but
may be used in airplane mode above 10,000 feet when authorized by a Flight Attendant announcement.
E. Sound Emitting Devices - Portable electronic devices that emit sound (e.g., music or video players or games)
may be used only with headphones and provided the sound, even via the headphones, cannot be heard by
others.
F. Codeshare Flights – The baggage policy of the airline on which a passenger originally booked the codeshare
flight will apply to the entire itinerary.
14. Conditions and Charges for Special Items
The following items are accepted as checked or carry-on baggage, subject to the conditions specified and
payment of applicable fees.
NOTE: Refer to the Sports Equipment and Special/Fragile Items chart hosted at www.FlyFrontier.com for other
items which have specific packaging or other requirements which need to be met in order to be
transported by air. All items listed on the Sports Equipment and Special/Fragile Items chart are subject
to baggage fees. Baggage fees for excess, oversize, and overweight are cumulative and all may be
assessed on one item.
A. Firearms -- Firearms are accepted as checked baggage on flights within the United States, but not
international flights. Carriage of any firearm is subject to the following conditions:
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 15 of 25 Conditions and Charges for Special Items
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
1) In accordance with federal law, a passenger who presents baggage that contains a firearm must (i)
ensure the firearm is unloaded, (ii) pack the firearm in a lockable, hard-sided container, (iii) declare the
firearm unloaded at the time of check-in, and (iv) sign a “Firearms Unloaded” declaration.
2) If the firearm is in a locked, hard-sided container INSIDE a piece of checked baggage, the declaration
must be placed inside the checked baggage and proximate to, but not inside of, that container.
3) If the firearm is in a locked, hard-sided container, but NOT INSIDE a piece of checked baggage, the
declaration must be placed inside the container.
4) After screening, the passenger must lock the firearm container and retain the key or combination.
5) The passenger must make arrangements for and assume full responsibility for complying with any
applicable laws, customs and government regulations, or restrictions of the state or territory to which the
firearm is being transported.
B. Ammunition - Ammunition for firearms (whether or not the firearm is also being carried) is accepted as
checked baggage on flights within the United States, but not international flights, subject to the following
conditions:
1) The ammunition must be securely packed in the original manufacturer's packaging, fiber (such as
cardboard), wood, or metal boxes or other sturdy and durable packaging providing sufficient cartridge
separation.
2) Each passenger is allowed up to 11 pounds (4.9 kilograms) of ammunition.
3) Loaded ammunition clips and magazines must also be securely boxed.
4) Ammunition may be packed with the firearm.
C. Live Animals -- Frontier accepts live animals only in the cabin of the aircraft, not as checked baggage. The
transportation of live animals is subject to fees for carriage and the terms and conditions below.
EXCEPTION: See separate rules with respect to service animals referred to in 6. Service Animals.
1) Only the following animals are permitted:
a) Domestic Flights -- Domesticated dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, hamsters, or small household birds.
b) International Flights -- Domesticated dogs and cats.
2) The passengers carrying the animal are responsible for making arrangements and assuming full
responsibility for complying with any applicable laws, customs and other governmental regulations,
requirements or restrictions of the country, state or territory to which the animal is being transported.
3) The passengers carrying the animal are responsible for paying any import/export fees, duties, or taxes
that may apply as well as any fines for failing to comply with applicable law.
4) International - Restrictions for travel with an animal to international destinations vary by country. Frontier
recommends contacting the appropriate embassy or consulate before purchasing a ticket for travel.
5) The passengers carrying the animal are responsible for making advance reservations because no more
than ten pet containers will be accepted per flight.
6) No passenger may carry more than one pet container.
7) The animal must remain in a pet container at all times and may not be fed while onboard the aircraft.
8) The pet container must be large enough for the pet to stand, turn around, and lie down in a natural
position and fit underneath the seat in front of the passenger.
Rev83 04/10/23
Limitations of Liability Pg. 16 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
9) The animal may not disrupt other passengers and the passenger must be able to quiet the animal without
removing it from the container.
10) The container counts toward the carry-on baggage allowance.
11) No oxygen will be administered to an animal in the event of an emergency.
D. Human Remains:
1) Crematory remains (human or animal) may be transported as carry-on or checked baggage subject to the
following conditions:
a) The container must be made of a material such as wood or plastic that can be successfully screened
by the TSA. If the container cannot be screened, it will not be allowed.
b) If the container is checked, it must be sufficiently packaged in a well-insulated and sturdy container.
c) If the container is carried onboard the flight, it counts toward the passenger's carry-on allowance and
it must meet carry-on baggage dimensions.
2) Human remains in caskets are not accepted.
E. Dry Ice (frozen carbon dioxide) -- Dry ice may be carried under the following conditions:
1) A maximum of 5.5 pounds (2.5 kilograms) of dry ice per passenger is accepted in checked or carry-on
baggage.
2) The cooler or package must permit the release of carbon dioxide gas. Styrofoam containers are not
accepted.
F. Bicycle - Bicycles may be carried under the following conditions:
1) The handlebars must be fixed sideways, and the pedals removed or wrapped in plastic foam or similar
material and the entire bicycle is encased in a hard-sided case.
2) Bicycles may only be carried as checked baggage.
3) A fee applies for each bicycle checked as baggage.
4) Bicycles are excluded from baggage liability unless packaged in a hard-sided case.
G. Special Items - The following items may exceed carry-on baggage dimensions but may be taken as a carry-on
item (and count toward the carry-on bag allowance) as long as they fit in the overhead bin: fishing rods, tennis
rackets, wedding attire, poster tubes, and musical instruments. If any such items are comprised of more than
one piece, they must be packaged together to be considered one item. The carry-on bag fee applies.
H. Codeshare Flights – The baggage policy of the airline on which a passenger originally booked the codeshare
flight will apply to the entire itinerary.
15. Limitations of Liability
A. Consequential Damages – Unless it is specifically stated otherwise in this Contract of Carriage, or as required
by any applicable law, Frontier is not liable for any indirect, special, or consequential damages arising out of
or resulting from transportation provided, delay in transportation, or any failure to provide transportation.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 17 of 25 Claim Limits and Procedures
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
B. International Transportation – With respect to international transportation, as defined in the following
referenced conventions, as applicable, Frontier’s liability will be limited as specified in, as and if applicable,
(i) the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage by Air signed at
Warsaw, October 12, 1929, as amended (“Warsaw Convention”), but subject to the Agreement entered into
by Frontier pursuant to 14 C.F.R. Part 203 or (ii) the Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for
International Carriage by Air, signed at Montreal, May 28, 1999 (“Montreal Convention”).
16. Claim Limits and Procedures
A. Limitations of Liability
1) Domestic Flights – With respect to domestic flights (i.e., those flights originating and ending within the
United States) without any scheduled stops outside of the United States, or international flights to which
neither the Warsaw Convention or the Montreal Convention apply, Frontier’s limit of liability, if any, for the
loss, damage or delay in the carriage of checked baggage shall be limited to $3,800 for all bags checked
under a single ticketed passenger’s name. Frontier will not be liable for:
i) The following items included in checked baggage, with or without the knowledge of Frontier:
ii) Articles strapped, taped, or tied to other pieces of baggage, which may become separated as a result
of normal handling during transportation
iii) Damage to the following items when not packed in a hard-sided case or other packing that is suitable
for the item:
• Prosthetic devices
• Medical equipment
• Musical instruments
• alcohol
• antiques
• art, paintings
• art supplies
• artifacts
• bags made from lightweight
material not designed for
shipping
• blueprints
• books
• business documents
• CDs
• cell phones
• Cigars, cigarettes,
electronic cigarettes, vape
pens
• collectibles
• computer equipment
(including hardware,
software and all
accessories)
• dentures
• drugs prohibited by federal
or state law
• DVDs
• eyeglasses
• files
• food/perishables
• fragile articles or other
similar valuable items and
commercial effects
• hand and power tools
• heirlooms
• irreplaceable items
• jewelry
• keys
• machinery and its parts
• manuscripts
• medication
• money
• natural fur products
• negotiable papers/
instruments
• optics
• orthodontics
• orthotics
• photographic/video/
electronic equipment and
accessories
• precious metals or stones
• publications
• samples
• securities
• silverware
• sound reproduction
equipment
• sunglasses
• surgical supports
• toys
Rev83 04/10/23
Claim Limits and Procedures Pg. 18 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
• Recreational or sporting equipment
• Baby items including car seats and strollers
iv) Damage to handles, straps, wheels, and zippers arising from normal wear and tear caused by
ordinary handling of baggage
v) Damage arising from ordinary wear and tear, such as cuts, scratches, scuffs, stains, dents,
punctures, marks, and dirt
vi) Damage resulting from over-packing or misuse
vii) Damage arising from liquids on or in baggage; including weather (e.g., rain, snow)
2) International Flights/Montreal Convention – With respect to international flights to which the Montreal
Convention applies, Frontier’s limit of liability, if any, for the loss, damage or delay in the carriage of
baggage (whether checked or carry-on) shall be limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per ticketed
passenger. The conversion rate, available at www.imf.org, in effect on the date of loss will be used for
determining maximum liability amount.
3) International Flights/Warsaw Convention – With respect to international flights to which the Warsaw
Convention applies, Frontier’s limit of liability, if any, for the loss, damage or delay of (i) checked baggage
shall be limited to 17 Special Drawing Rights per pound, or actual value, whichever is less, (ii) carry-on
baggage shall be limited to 332 Special Drawing Rights or actual value, whichever is less. The conversion
rate, available at www.imf.org, in effect on the date of loss will be used for determining maximum liability
amount. Absent evidence to the contrary, bags will be presumed to weigh 20 pounds.
4) Frontier does not accept declarations of higher value or accept fees based on such declarations.
5) Subject to the above specified limits of liability, Frontier will compensate a passenger whose baggage has
been lost, damaged or delayed for reasonable, documented direct damages up to the specified limit of
liability, provided the passenger has made reasonable effort to minimize the amount of damage and
provided documentation of the loss. The compensation due for lost or damaged property will be
determined by the lesser of the documented original purchase price less applicable depreciation or the
cost to make repairs.
6) Frontier’s liability for wheelchairs, mobility aids, and assistive devices used by a passenger with a
disability if lost or damaged by Frontier shall be up to the original purchase price of the device without
regard to the above limitations of liability.
7) Passengers who incur incidental expenses as a result of delayed baggage delivery will be reimbursed per
established DOT guidelines, subject to the above limitations of liability (as applicable). Any amounts paid
to the passenger for incidental expenses will be deducted from the total loss amount prior to check
issuance.
8) Frontier will not be liable for loss or damage to carry-on baggage unless such damage is caused by
Frontier’s or its agent’s negligence, which does not include damage resulting from turbulence, shifting of
items during flight, or ordinary handling, including placing the baggage in overhead compartments or
under seats.
9) Frontier’s employees and agents are not liable to passengers.
B. Time Limit to Make Claims and Procedures
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 19 of 25 Failure to Operate on Schedule or Failure to Carry
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
1) With respect to domestic flights and those international flights to which the Montreal Convention does
not apply, any claim based on damage, delay, or loss of baggage must be reported to Frontier within 4
hours of the arrival of the flight on which the loss or damage is claimed to have occurred. Claims for
pilferage may be made up to 24 hours after flight arrival. Any documentation required to support the claim
must be submitted within 30 days from the date the requesting passenger receives the claim form packet
from Frontier; Frontier will not be liable if the completed claims are not submitted, with documentation,
within that time period.
2) With respect to international flights to which the Montreal Convention applies, in the case of baggage
damage, the person entitled to delivery must submit in writing to Frontier as soon as possible after
discovery of the damage, and at the latest in writing 7 days from receipt of checked baggage and in the
case of delay or loss, complaints must be made at the latest within 21 days from the date on which the
baggage has been placed at the passenger’s disposal or should have been placed at the passenger’s
disposal in the case of loss. All claims must be made in writing and must be accompanied by supporting
documentation. Any subsequent request for documentation from Frontier must be provided to Frontier
within 21 days of the request.
17. Failure to Operate on Schedule or Failure to Carry
A. Liability Limited - Frontier will use reasonable efforts to transport passengers and baggage to the purchased
destination, but published schedules, flight times, aircraft types, seat assignments, and similar details set
forth in the ticket or Frontier’s published schedules are not guaranteed and form no part of this Contract of
Carriage. Frontier may substitute alternate aircraft, change schedules, delay or cancel flights, change seat
assignments, and alter or omit stopping places shown on the ticket as required by its operations in Frontier’s
sole discretion. Frontier’s obligations for failure to operate any flight, failure to operate a flight according to
its schedule, or for changing the schedule or type of equipment used on any flight, with or without notice to
the passenger, are set forth below.
B. Force Majeure - In the occurrence of a force majeure event, Frontier may cancel, divert, or delay any flight
without liability except to provide a refund for the unused portion of the ticket.
C. Delay, Misconnection, or Cancellation - In the event (i) a passenger's flight is canceled, (ii) a passenger is
denied boarding because an aircraft with lesser capacity is substituted, (iii) a passenger misses a connecting
Frontier flight due to a delay or cancellation of a Frontier flight (but not flights of other carriers), (iv) a
passenger is delivered to a different destination because of the omission of a scheduled stop to which the
passenger held a ticket, to the extent possible, Frontier will provide transportation on its own flights at no
additional charge to the passenger’s original destination or equivalent destination as provided herein.
Frontier will have no obligation to provide transportation on another carrier. If Frontier cannot provide the
foregoing transportation, Frontier shall, if requested, provide a refund for the unused portion of the
passenger's ticket in lieu of the transportation under the foregoing. The foregoing shall be the limit of
Frontier's liability for the matters covered by this provision.
D. For purposes of involuntary reroute (a diversion), use this link https://www.flyfrontier.com/travel/travel-info/
travel-policies#same-day-flight-changes and see under the title Same Day Flight Changes section of the
flyfrontier.com page for the groups of cities that are considered to be the same point. If Frontier is able to
provide transportation to one of the specified alternative cities, Frontier has met its obligation for transport
to the final destination.
E. Schedule Change Prior to Day of Travel -- When a passenger’s itinerary is changed because of a modification
in Frontier’s schedule, arrangements will be made to:
Rev83 04/10/23
Denied Boarding Compensation Pg. 20 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
1) Transport the passenger over its own route system to the destination; or
2) In the event Frontier determines that the schedule modification is significant, Frontier shall, if requested,
provide passengers a refund of the cost of the unused portion of the ticket.
F. Extended Onboard Ground Delays -- In accordance with FAA regulations, Frontier maintains and complies with
a separate Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac Delays. Frontier's Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac
Delays may be found on Frontier's website at
https://az832049.vo.msecnd.net/media/1567/f9-contingency-plan-for-extended-tarmac-delays-2015.pdf.
Frontier's Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac Delays is subject to change without notice and is not part of
this Contract of Carriage.
18. Denied Boarding Compensation
When a seat cannot be provided due to an inadequate number of seats for the number of passengers holding
confirmed reservations (overbooking), the actions described in this section will be taken.
A. Voluntary -- Passengers on a flight with an overbooking will be encouraged to voluntarily relinquish their seats
in exchange for alternate travel and for compensation in the form of an Electronic Travel Voucher for future
transportation to be booked within 365 days on Frontier. The request and selection of volunteers will be in a
manner determined solely by Frontier.
B. Involuntary -- If insufficient passengers volunteer, passengers who cannot be accommodated on the flight will
be denied boarding and Frontier will provide transportation on a Frontier flight to the same destination. After
a passenger’s boarding pass is collected or scanned and accepted by the gate agent, and the passenger has
boarded, a passenger may be removed from a flight only for safety or security reasons or in accordance with
Section 3 of this Contract of Carriage.
C. Amount of Compensation -- Frontier will compensate a passenger for involuntary-denied boarding based on
the new arrival time after the originally scheduled arrival time as follows:
NOTE 1: Frontier is not obligated to provide compensation for denied boarding when an aircraft of
lesser capacity is substituted due to operational or safety reasons.
NOTE 2: No compensation will be due if boarding is denied for reasons other than overbooking (e.g.,
pursuant to applicable law or other provisions of this Contract of Carriage).
D. Onward Transportation for Passengers Denied Boarding
1) A passenger denied boarding, voluntarily or involuntarily, pursuant to this section, will be transported on
Frontier’s next available flight on which space is available and at no additional charge.
2) If a passenger who has been denied boarding, voluntarily or involuntarily, pursuant to this section, wishes
to modify the travel date, if space is available, a ticket will be provided for travel within 72 hours at no
additional charge.
Domestic International Compensation
New arrival time within :59 New arrival time within :59 No Compensation
New arrival time within 1 - 1:59 New arrival time within 1 - 3:59 200% (2x) of the one-way fare, not to
exceed $775
New arrival time 2 hours or more New arrival time 4 hours or more 400% (4x) of the one-way fare, not to
exceed $1550
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 21 of 25 Refunds; No-Show Cancellations and Service Charges
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
E. Electronic Travel Voucher
1) Involuntary Denied Boarding - Frontier may offer passengers denied boarding involuntarily an Electronic
Travel Voucher good for transportation on Frontier in lieu of cash compensation otherwise due under this
section. Passengers may decline such offer in favor of the applicable cash compensation. The Electronic
Travel Voucher has no refund value, will expire 365 days from date of issuance, is not transferable, cannot
be applied to group travel (more than nine passengers on a booking), and may be used towards a booking
with multiple people as long as the passenger to whom it is issued is present in the same booking.
Electronic Travel Vouchers can be applied to ancillary services (e.g., seats, baggage), fees, and taxes. If a
ticket purchased with an Electronic Travel Voucher costs less than the amount of the voucher, no residual
value remains. Changes to a ticket purchased with an Electronic Travel Voucher may result in a change
fee and any additional fare difference based on the rules of the issued ticket.
2) Voluntary Denied Boarding - Frontier may offer passengers who volunteer for denied boarding an
Electronic Travel Voucher good for transportation on Frontier. The Electronic Travel Voucher has no refund
value, will expire 365 days from date of issuance, is not transferable, cannot be applied to group travel
(more than nine passengers on a booking), and may be used towards a booking with multiple people as
long as the passenger to whom it is issued is present in the booking. Electronic Travel Vouchers can be
applied to ancillary services (e.g., seats, baggage) and fees; no taxes will be covered by the Electronic
Travel Voucher. If a ticket purchased with an Electronic Travel Voucher costs less than the amount of the
voucher, no residual value remains. Changes to a ticket purchased with an Electronic Travel Voucher may
result in a change fee and any additional fare difference based on the rules of the issued ticket.
F. Time of Offer and Payment of Compensation
1) The offer of compensation for overbooking will be made by Frontier on the day and at the place where the
failure to provide confirmed space occurred. If accepted, compensation will be given to the passenger. If
the alternative transportation arranged for the passenger's convenience departs before the payment can
be made, payment will be made by mail or other means within 24 hours after the denied boarding occurs.
2) Acceptance of any Denied Boarding Compensation constitutes full compensation for damages incurred
by the passenger as a result of Frontier's failure to provide the passenger with a confirmed seat.
19. Refunds; No-Show Cancellations and Service Charges
A. The provisions of this Section (20.A) shall apply with respect to refunds for tickets under this Contract of
Carriage:
1) All refunds will be subject to government laws, rules, regulations, or orders of the country in which the
ticket was originally purchased and of the country in which the refund is being made.
2) The first portion of any amount refunded will be the full amount of government-imposed taxes and fees,
as well as certain carrier charges applied to the ticket purchase.
3) If applicable, cancellation fees or service charges will be assessed in a separate transaction and netted
against the refunded amount.
4) No Use - If no portion of the ticket has been used, the refund amount will be equal to the fare, plus any
ancillary purchases (checked or carry-on bag, seat assignments, etc.), all government-imposed charges,
taxes, and fees, and certain carrier charges paid for the ticket issued to the passenger.
5) Partial use - If a portion of the ticket has been used:
Rev83 04/10/23
Refunds; No-Show Cancellations and Service Charges Pg. 22 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
a) One-way ticket: If travel was terminated at an intermediate or stopover point, the refund amount will
be equal to the amount of the fare and all ancillary purchases (checked or carry-on bag, seat
assignments, etc.) paid from the point of termination to the destination or to the point at which
transportation is to resume and will be the lowest one-way fare for the class of service paid for minus
any discount, plus all government-imposed charges, taxes, and fees and certain carrier charges, as
proportionately attributable, which shall be reasonably determined by Frontier.
b) Round-trip ticket purchased: the refund amount will be equal to the amount of the fare and ancillary
purchases (checked or carry-on bag, seat assignments, etc.) paid on the unused portion of the ticket,
plus all government-imposed charges, taxes, and fees and certain carrier charges, as proportionately
attributable, which shall be reasonably determined by Frontier.
B. In addition to the provisions of Section 20.A, in situations other than No-Show Cancellations, the provisions
of this Section (20.B) shall apply with respect to refunds for tickets under this Contract of Carriage:
1) For refundable tickets that are canceled prior to flight departure, passengers should fill out an online
request, available at www.FlyFrontier.com.
2) For tickets that are canceled up to 24 hours after the time of purchase (excluding tickets purchased within
seven days before travel, which will be held as a credit, less the applicable cancellation fee and certain
carrier charges), passengers should cancel their tickets online at www.FlyFrontier.com.
3) Payment - A refund will be provided only to the original purchaser's form of payment. However, if, at the
time of the application for refund, evidence is submitted that a company purchased the ticket on behalf
of its employee or a travel agency has made a refund to its client, the refund will be made directly to the
employee's company or the travel agency. The Table below illustrates other rules respecting payment:
4) Identity - Frontier does not assume responsibility to confirm that the person using or presenting a ticket
for refund is the true owner of the ticket.
C. In situations involving a No-Show Cancellation, in addition to the provisions of Section 20.A, the provisions of
this Section (20.C) shall apply with respect to refunds for tickets under this Contract of Carriage.
1) Automatic Refund; No Additional Submission Required – In the case of a No-Show Cancellation, the
refund described in Section 20.A shall be automatically refunded to the purchaser.
2) Automatic Imposition of a No-Show Cancellation Service Charge.
Payment Type Refunded To
Universal Air Travel Plan The subscriber against whose account the ticket was charged
Transportation Request issued by a
government agency other than a U.S.
government agency
The government agency that issued the transportation request
U.S. Government Transportation
Request
The U.S. government agency that issued the U.S. Government
Transportation Request with a check payable to the “Treasurer
of the United States”
Card The account of the person to whom the credit or debit card was
issued
Electronic Travel Voucher The original voucher value will be reinstated if the cancellation is
within 90 days of the voucher issue date
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 23 of 25 Currency and Mode of Payment and Fees
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
a) Refund – The refund described in Section 20.A shall be given, but will be netted against the No-Show
Cancellation Service Charge in a separate transaction.
b) Imposition of a No-Show Cancellation Service Charge – A No-Show Cancellation Service Charge will
apply with respect to the ticket (or the segment for which the No-Show Cancellation applies) in the
amount of the fare plus all ancillary purchases plus all government-imposed charges, taxes and fees
and certain carrier charges attributable to the fare and ancillary purchases.
c) The payment of the No-Show Cancellation Service Charge shall not entitle the purchaser (and, if
different, the passenger or other party to whom a refund would otherwise be due) to transportation.
D. To the extent required by applicable law, including Code § 6415(a) and the regulations promulgated
thereunder, the purchaser (and, if different, the passenger or other party to whom a refund would otherwise
be due) hereby consents to Frontier recovering any allowance of a credit or refund of any overpayment of
governmental fees or tax imposed, including pursuant to Code § 4261, including in each case which
overpayment arises directly or indirectly as a result of a No-Show Cancellation as contemplated in this
Contract of Carriage.
20. Currency and Mode of Payment and Fees
A. Fares, fees, charges, and taxes charged or collected by Frontier are due in United States dollars, except for
bookings made through available Canadian online travel sites, which are due in Canadian dollars. Any
purchases made in connection with such bookings would also be due in Canadian dollars.
B. All amounts due to Frontier must be paid with a credit or debit card; Frontier may require that each passenger
have a card on file with Frontier to purchase a ticket and complete transport on Frontier. Frontier does not
accept cash for any transactions, including those on Frontier's aircraft, except that Frontier may accept cash
at certain international locations.
C. Frontier does not accept personal checks, traveler's checks, certified (cashier's) checks, or money orders.
D. A service charge will apply to any improper chargeback on a credit or debit card and may be charged to the
same card via which the chargeback is made.
21. Miscellaneous
A. Subordination to Law - In all cases, this Contract of Carriage will be subordinate to any applicable law.
B. Metric References - Conversion of British units to metric units are approximate and for reference only. The
British unit will apply.
C. Change Without Notice - Except as may be required by applicable laws, government regulations, orders, and
requirements, Frontier reserves the right to amend this Contract of Carriage without notice, provided that no
such change shall apply to carriage that has commenced.
D. No Waiver/Modification of Terms - No employee or agent of Frontier has the authority to waive, modify, or alter
any provisions of the Contract of Carriage unless authorized by a corporate officer of Frontier.
Accommodations provided beyond what is required by the Contract of Carriage do not alter the Contract of
Carriage. Frontier's employees and agents, including third party travel agents and online travel sites, are only
authorized to sell tickets for air transportation on Frontier subject to the Contract of Carriage.
Rev83 04/10/23
Contingency Plan for Extended Tarmac Delays Pg. 24 of 25
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
E. Changes in Rules, Fares, and Charges - Unless otherwise provided within specific fare rules, transportation
is subject to the rules, fares, and charges in effect on the date a ticket is issued, determined by the validation
stamped or imprinted on the ticket, or valid electronic ticket.
F. Use of Images - Passengers (or in the case of minors, their parents or legal guardians) consent to the unpaid
use of any photos, videos, or other images taken of them by or for Frontier, for advertising or marketing
purposes.
G. Taxes and Charges - When the ticket is issued for the effective date, all government, airport, vendor, or other
charges that apply to passenger travel into foreign countries are the responsibility of the passenger to whom
the ticket was originally issued and are in addition to the published fare and charges.
H. Fares/Charges - Specific fares and charges information is available through Frontier reservations offices and
at www.FlyFrontier.com.
I. No Class Action - Any case brought pursuant to this Contract of Carriage, Frontier’s Tarmac Delay Plan, or
Frontier’s Customer Service Plan may be brought in a party's individual capacity and not as a plaintiff or class
member in any purported class or representative proceeding.
J. Time Limit for Action - No legal action may be brought by a passenger against Frontier unless commenced
within 6 months from the date of the alleged incident.
K. Choice of Law - This Contract of Carriage will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of
the United States of America and the State of Colorado without regard to conflict of law principles or law. All
right to trial by jury in any action, proceeding or counterclaim arising out of or in connection with this Contract
of Carriage is irrevocably waived.
L. Codeshare Flights – Except for baggage policies (see section 12. , section 13. , and section 14. ), the policies,
rules, and procedures of the operating airline will apply on any codeshare flight.
22. Contingency Plan for Extended Tarmac Delays
The safety of our passengers is our #1 priority at Frontier Airlines. With that in mind, Frontier works hard to avoid
extended tarmac delay situations. However, occasionally these situations do arise. Frontier maintains a plan to
resolve the extended tarmac delays as quickly as possible as well as mitigating the impact and inconvenience to
our passengers.
For all flights that remain at the gate or other disembarkation area with the main cabin door open 30 minutes
after scheduled departure time (including any revised departure time that passengers were notified about
before boarding) from which there is an opportunity to deplane, Frontier will notify passengers that they have the
opportunity to deplane from the aircraft and repeat that notice at least every 30 minutes thereafter while that
opportunity continues to exist.
A. For all flights that have departed from a gate without taking off or after a flight has landed without arriving
at a gate (“Delay”), Frontier will notify passengers of the status of the Delay every 30 minutes while the aircraft
is Delayed, including the reasons for the Delay, if known.
B. No later than 120 minutes after a Delay begins, Frontier will ensure that all passengers have been afforded
the opportunity to receive food and water, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security
considerations preclude such service.
C. At 150 minutes (210 for international flights) after a delay begins, unless the pilot in command deems that
departure is imminent, Frontier will look to return the aircraft to a gate or move to a remote parking location
where passengers can be afforded the opportunity to deplane.
Rev83 04/10/23
Pg. 25 of 25 Contingency Plan for Extended Tarmac Delays
C ONTRACT O F C ARRIAGE
D. By no later than 180 (240 for international flights) minutes after a Delay begins Frontier will return the aircraft
to a gate or other location where passengers will have the opportunity to deplane, unless:
E. The pilot in command determines there is a safety related or security related reason (e.g., weather, a directive
from an appropriate government agency) why the aircraft cannot leave its position on the tarmac to deplane
passengers; or
F. Air traffic control advises the pilot in command that returning to the gate or another disembarkation point
elsewhere in order to deplane passengers would significantly disrupt airport operations.
G. During any Delay, Frontier will ensure that a comfortable temperature is maintained throughout the
passenger cabin.
H. During any Delay, Frontier will ensure access to medical attention is available to meet all requests, including
the use of a third-party medical consultation service.
I. During any Delay, Frontier will ensure that operable lavatory facilities are available provided the pilot-incommand determines that it is safe and secure for passenger to move about the aircraft cabin.
J. At each airport where Frontier flies, including diversion airports, this plan has been coordinated with airport
authorities, Customs & Border Protection, and the Transportation Security Administration.
K. Frontier has ensured that it has adequate resources available to administer this plan.
Frontier would also like our passengers to be aware of certain the following that will apply in the case of a Delay:
A. If a flight returns to a gate or diverts from its planned destination, in most cases, the delayed or diverted flight
will attempt to continue to its final destination. The right to deplane in such cases will be determined in
accordance with the above.
B. Frontier maintains information and arrangements with both airports and other airlines to secure additional
gate space if needed during a tarmac delay. If allowed by the airport, the deplaning of passengers may take
place when it is safe and secure to do so, either at a gate or at an approved remote parking position via stairs
and ground transportation.
C. Any passengers who choose to deplane from a flight that has experienced a delay and make alternative travel
arrangements may do so when it is determined to be safe and secure, after the aircraft has been moved into
position for deplaning, all operational requirements for deplaning have been completed, and the pilot-incommand has allowed customer deplaning to begin.
D. Passengers should be aware that if they choose to deplane, they do so at their own risk and the flight may
depart without them. Frontier will make reasonable attempts, e.g., via airport announcements, to
communicate the new departure time of the flight. In cases where an aircraft that has returned to a gate,
passengers may be advised how long the aircraft will remain at the gate to determine how much time (if any)
passengers may spend inside the terminal prior to having to re-board the aircraft for the continuation of the
flight. Such time may, however, be shorted in which case an announcement will be made to return to the
aircraft.
E. Passengers who choose to deplane and/or make alternative travel arrangements should be aware that on
most domestic flights their checked baggage will remain on the aircraft. In cases where a flight returns to the
gate and is canceled baggage will be returned to the baggage claim area.
F. In instances where passengers are permitted to deplane at a remote aircraft parking position, reboarding the
aircraft may not be possible.
Rev83 04/10/23