



















JetBlue Airways
JetBlue Airways Contract of Carriage
Domestic transportation and international transportation by JetBlue Airways Corporation
(“Carrier” or “JetBlue”) is subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Contract
of Carriage and, where applicable, also subject to treaties, government regulations,
and tariffs on file with the U.S. Department of Transportation, as well as any terms,
conditions, and/or restrictions applicable to your booking channel. If your itinerary
involves travel on a flight operated by a JetBlue Codeshare Partner (as defined below),
please see Section 35. If your itinerary involves travel on a flight operated by a
JetBlue interline partner, please see Section 36. By making a reservation or accepting
transportation on Carrier, each Passenger (as defined below) agrees to be bound by
all of the following terms and conditions.
1. Definitions
Assistive Device refers to any piece of equipment that assists an Individual with a
Disability to cope with the effects of his or her disability, and may include medical devices
and medications.
Battery-Powered Mobility Aid refers to an assistive device used by individuals with
mobility impairments such as a wheelchair, scooter or a Segway when it is used as a
mobility device by a person with a mobility-related disability.
Blue Basic Fare, Blue Fare, Blue Plus Fare, Blue Extra Fare, and Mint refer
to fare options offered for purchase. Details regarding fare options are available at
www.jetblue.com/fares.
Carriage refers to the transportation of passengers and/or baggage by air, together with
any related services of Carrier in connection with such transportation.
Carrier means JetBlue Airways Corporation.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-1
JetBlue Airways
Codeshare Partner means another airline operating a flight on which Carrier has placed
its airline designator code, “B6.”
Confirmed Reservation means a space on a specific date and on a specific flight and in
a specific class of service of Carrier which has been requested by a Passenger, including
a Passenger with a “Zero Fare Ticket,” and which Carrier or its agent has verified, by
appropriate notation on the ticket or in any other manner provided therefore by Carrier,
as being reserved for the accommodation of the Passenger.
Controllable Irregularity as used in Section 38, means a delay, cancellation or diversion
that is not caused by a Force Majeure Event. For the sake of clarity, if in a chain of
multiple events, the original irregularity is due to a Force Majeure Event, the cause of the
subsequent event(s) reasonably related to the original irregularity shall not be deemed a
Controllable Irregularity.
Convention means, whichever of the following applies:
• Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules Relating to International Carriage
By Air, signed at Warsaw, October 12, 1929 (“Warsaw Convention”).
• Warsaw Convention, as Amended at the Hague, 1955 (“Hague Protocol”).
• Warsaw Convention, as Amended at the Hague, 1955 and by Protocol No. 4 of
Montreal, 1975 (“Montreal Protocol No. 4”).
• Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules for International Carriage By Air
done at Montreal 1999 (“Montreal Convention”).
Credit shall mean a credit in a specified dollar amount valid for one (1) year from the date
of issuance if issued before March 8, 2023, and one (1) year from the booking date of the
original ticket if issued on or after March 8, 2023. A Credit must be used (travel booked)
during its validity period. Credits are non-transferable unless otherwise stated herein.
Departure Delay, as used in Sections 37 and 38, means a delay prior to pushback
from the Gate.
Force Majeure Event means an event(s) outside of JetBlue’s reasonable control
which includes, but is not limited to, weather conditions; acts of government or airport
authorities (e.g., Air Traffic Control Delays, runway closures, airport construction); acts
of God; U.S. military or airlift emergency or substantially expanded U.S. military airlift
requirements, as determined by the U.S. government; grounding of a substantial number
of aircraft as a result of activation of the U.S. Civil Reserve Air Fleet; strikes or labor
unrest; civil commotions, embargoes, wars or other hostilities, whether actual, threatened
or reported; government regulation, demand or requirement; damage to aircraft caused
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-2
JetBlue Airways
by a third-party; emergency situation requiring care, protection or response to protect
person or property or any event that is not reasonably foreseen, predicted or anticipated
by JetBlue.
Gate means either where a plane loads or deplanes Passengers into a terminal building
via a jetbridge or, in the case of a hardstand, via a people mover, bus, or air stairs.
Ground Delay, as used in Section 37, means a delay involving a flight that, in the case
of departures, has boarded and pushed back from the Gate but that is not in the air and,
in the case of arrivals, has landed but has not yet arrived at a Gate.
Individual with a Disability is an individual or Passenger who:
a. has a physical or mental impairment that, on a permanent or temporary
b. basis, substantially limits one or more major life activities,
c. has a record of such an impairment, or is regarded as having such an
impairment, as further defined in U.S. Department of Transportation regulations
in 14 CFR Part 382.3 or Regulation (EC) No. 1107/2006, as applicable.
Interline Transportation means carriage on more than one carrier where carriers agree
to accept each other’s tickets and baggage.
Mint refers to Carrier’s premium service fare option. Details regarding Mint service are
available at http://www.jetblue.com/flying-on-jetblue/mint/.
Non-Revenue Passenger is a Passenger who is traveling on a JetBlue travel certificate,
an employee pass, a travel pass issued to JetBlue employees for transfer to family and
friends (known as a “Buddy Pass”), a JetBlue frequent flyer program award (known as
a “TrueBlue Award” or “True Pass”), VIP pass, Travel Card, other airline employees
traveling free of charge or at a reduced rate.
Passenger is any person, except members of the crew working the flight, who enters into
a contract of transportation or other agreement (or for whom a contract of transportation
or other agreement is entered into) with Carrier by which the person is to be transported
in an aircraft with the consent of Carrier. A person who is identified, at any time and in
any way, as a knowing participant in the commission of a War Risk Occurrence shall not
be considered to be a “Passenger” for the purposes of this Contract of Carriage.
Qualified Individual with a Disability means a Passenger or individual with a disability
who:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-3
JetBlue Airways
a. with respect to accompanying or meeting a traveler, use of ground
transportation, use of terminal facilities or obtaining information about
schedules, fares or policies, takes those actions necessary to avail himself or
herself of facilities or services offered by Carrier to the general public, with
reasonable accommodations, as needed, provided by Carrier;
b. with respect to obtaining a reservation for air transportation on Carrier, offers
or makes a good faith attempt to offer to purchase or otherwise to validly
obtain a reservation;
c. with respect to obtaining air transportation on other services or accommodations
required by U.S. Department of Transportation regulations in 14 CFR Part 382:
1. purchases or possesses a valid reservation for air transportation on
Carrier and presents himself or herself at the airport for the purpose
of traveling on the flight for which the ticket has been purchased or
obtained;
2. meets reasonable, nondiscriminatory Contract of Carriage requirements
applicable to all Passengers; and
3. whose carriage will not violate the requirements of Federal Aviation
Regulations or, in the reasonable expectation of Carrier personnel,
jeopardize the safe completion of the flight or the health or safety of
other persons.
Service Animal refers to a dog, regardless of breed or type, that is individually trained
to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of a Qualified Individual with a Disability,
including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental disability.
Stopover refers to a deliberate interruption of a journey by a Passenger, scheduled to
exceed four (4) hours, at a point between the place of departure and the final destination.
Tariffs mean the international passenger rules tariffs publicly filed with the U.S.
Department of Transportation.
Uncontrollable Irregularity, as used in Section 37, means a delay, cancellation or
diversion that is caused by a Force Majeure Event. For the sake of clarity, if in a chain of
multiple events, the original irregularity is due to a Force Majeure Event, the cause of the
subsequent event(s) reasonably related to the original irregularity shall be deemed an
Uncontrollable Irregularity.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-4





JetBlue Airways
Zero Fare Ticket means a ticket acquired without a substantial monetary payment
such as by using frequent flier miles or vouchers, or a consolidator ticket obtained after
a monetary payment that does not show a fare amount on the ticket. A Zero Fare
Ticket does not include free or reduced rate air transportation provided to employees
and guests.
2. Nature of Contract
This Contract of Carriage applies to and governs Carrier's routes only. No agent, servant
or representative of Carrier has authority to change or waive any provision of this
Contract of Carriage, unless authorized in writing by a corporate officer of Carrier. Unless
otherwise prohibited by law, this Contract constitutes the entire agreement between
Carrier and Passenger or the party on behalf of whom this contract was entered.
3. Reservations
a. All reservations on Carrier are confirmed and delivered electronically.
b. No person shall be entitled to transportation without a valid, Confirmed
Reservation. No reservation shall be considered a Confirmed Reservation
if purchase is not completed at least thirty (30) minutes prior to scheduled
departure and until payment in full has been received. No reservation paid by
credit card shall be considered a Confirmed Reservation if the transaction is
not accepted by Carrier for any reason, whether or not Passenger is notified
that the reservation has been cancelled.
c. Name changes are only permitted in the case of refundable fares. All other
reservations are non-transferable and non-assignable. Non-refundable fares
may only be used by the Passenger named on the reservation at the time the
reservation is made.
d. Carrier reserves the right to refuse carriage to any person who has acquired
a reservation in violation of applicable law or Carrier’s rules and regulations,
or without legal capacity to contract.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-5
JetBlue Airways
e. Seat assignments are not guaranteed and are subject to change without notice.
Passenger may not occupy a seat other than the seat(s) to which Passenger is
assigned except when so authorized or instructed by crewmembers on duty.
4. Changes, Cancellations, and Refunds
a. Non-Refundable Fares
a. Changes
a. Non-refundable fares, with the exception of Blue Basic Fares,
may be changed prior to the scheduled departure time without
penalty, subject to availability and any applicable fare difference.
Blue Basic Fares may be changed prior to the scheduled
departure time for up to a Two Hundred Dollar ($200) or
One Hundred and Fifty Pound (£150) change fee, subject to
availability and any applicable fare difference.
b. Cancellations:
a. Non-refundable fares may be cancelled prior to the scheduled
departure time for a Credit for future air-only travel on Carrier.
Refunds are not allowed. Credit is issued without penalty,
except Blue Basic Fares, for which Credit is subject to up to a
Two Hundred Dollar ($200) or One Hundred and Fifty Pound
(£150) service fee.
b. Credit may be used to book a new air-only reservation on
Carrier in the name of the Passenger or in the name of any
other person designated by the Passenger. Failure to cancel
prior to scheduled departure will result in the cancellation of
all remaining segments associated with the reservation and
forfeiture of fare and any fees for ancillary products or services
purchased. In the event of cancellation of a non-refundable fare,
taxes and fees will be included in the Credit where permitted by
applicable law. Taxes and fees will not be refunded except when
required by applicable law and, where permitted, only upon
written request by Passenger.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-6
JetBlue Airways
c. Standby Travel:
In the case of reservations for non-refundable fares for travel that
does not involve (i) a change in departure city or arrival city, or (ii) a
change between a JetBlue-operated flight and a JetBlue flight that
contains a segment operated by a Codeshare Partner or interline
partner, Passengers may change their reservation to standby travel for
the flight immediately preceding their original departure with payment
of the additional service fee applicable to the fare option purchased.
Passengers may not change their reservation to standby travel for the
flight immediately preceding their original departure if such a change
would result in changing the date of travel, a change in the departure
city or arrival city, or a change between a JetBlue-operated flight and a
JetBlue flight that contains a segment operated by a JetBlue Codeshare
Partner or interline partner.
d. Following receipt of payment from a Passenger, JetBlue will allow a
reservation to be held at the quoted fare for twenty-four (24) hours, if
the reservation is made at least one week prior to the flight’s departure.
If such reservation is canceled within twenty-four (24) hours of booking,
Passenger will receive a full refund without assessment of a cancellation
fee.
2. Federal Government Fares:
1. Changes: Fully refundable Federal Government Fares may be changed
at any time subject to availability and any applicable fare difference.
2. Cancellations: Fully refundable Federal Government Fares may be
cancelled at any time and Passenger will receive a full refund. Fare
refunds will be made by Carrier to the original form of payment.
3. Refunds: Refunds shall be made by Carrier to the original form of
payment, except that when a portion of the trip has been made, the
refund will be made in an amount equal to the applicable one-way fare
(less any applicable discount) for the portion of the trip cancelled or not
operated as scheduled by Carrier.
3. Refundable Fares:
1. Changes:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-7
JetBlue Airways
The fare paid for a Passenger who purchases a fully refundable ticket
may be changed at any time prior to scheduled departure, subject to
availability and any applicable fare difference. If the reservation is not
changed prior to scheduled departure, all money associated with the
fare will be a Credit valid for future travel on JetBlue.
2. Cancellations:
Reservations for refundable fares may be cancelled at any time prior to
scheduled departure and Passenger will receive a full refund. Failure
to cancel prior to scheduled departure will result in the cancellation of
all remaining segments associated with the reservation and all money
associated with the fare will be a Credit valid for future travel on JetBlue.
3. Refunds:
For Passengers who are eligible to receive a refund under this Section,
refunds shall be made by Carrier to the original form of payment,
except that when a portion of the trip has been made, the refund will
be made in an amount equal to the applicable one-way fare (less any
applicable discount) for the portion of the trip cancelled or not operated
as scheduled by Carrier.
4. Combined Fares
Where one leg of a fare is ticketed as a refundable fare and another leg of a
fare is ticketed as a non-refundable fare, the applicable refund and cancellation
policies for refundable fares will apply only to the refundable portion and the
applicable refund and cancellation policies for the non-refundable fare will
apply to the non-refundable portion.
5. Failure of a Passenger to adhere to the following time requirements may result
in the cancellation of the Passenger’s reservation, seat assignments and
forfeiture of payment:
1. For domestic travel:
a. Passengers traveling without checked baggage must have
obtained a boarding pass thirty (30) minutes prior to scheduled
departure;
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-8









JetBlue Airways
b. Passengers traveling with checked baggage must have obtained
a boarding pass and have dropped off their baggage forty (40)
minutes prior to scheduled departure; and
c. All Passengers must be onboard the aircraft fifteen (15) minutes
prior to scheduled or posted aircraft departure time.
2. For international travel:
a. Passengers traveling with or without checked baggage must
have obtained a boarding pass and have dropped off their
baggage sixty (60) minutes prior to scheduled departure; and
b. All Passengers must be onboard the aircraft fifteen (15) minutes
prior to scheduled or posted aircraft departure time.
6. Carrier will refuse to honor any reservation when such action is reasonably
deemed to be necessary to comply with applicable governmental regulations
or requests.
7. Except in the case of Federal Government Fares, when a round trip or
multi-segment reservation has been made and the Passenger fails to honor
his or her reservation for the first portion of the trip, Carrier will cancel, without
notification, the return portion or the continuing portion of the Passenger's
reservation and Passenger forfeits any remaining fare.
8. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner, please see
Section 36 for information regarding changes, cancellations and refunds.
5. Group Reservations
Reservations for eight (8) or nine (9) Passengers traveling on the same itinerary may
be made by calling 1-800-JETBLUE. Reservations for ten (10) or more Passengers
traveling on the same itinerary must be made through Carrier’s Group Desk. Refundable
fares are not available for group reservations. If a group reservation is canceled within
twenty-four (24) hours of booking and such reservation is made one week or more
prior to the flight’s departure, payment will be refunded in full without assessment of a
cancellation fee. Such refund will include any deposit that a party or individual is required
to make at the time of booking. Such group reservations are subject to all applicable
group policies and procedures established by Carrier.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-9
JetBlue Airways
6. Fares
a. Transportation on Carrier is subject to the fares, taxes and charges in effect
on the date on which the Confirmed Reservation was made. If the reservation
has been confirmed and e-ticket issued before an increase in the fare becomes
effective, the reservation shall be honored for transportation as purchased. If
the fare decreases after a Confirmed Reservation has been made and e-ticket
issued, Carrier will not refund, credit or make any adjustment to the original fare.
b. Fares apply only between the points named and via the routing as shown in
Carrier’s current schedule and are not applicable to or from intermediate points.
c. Carrier has non-refundable fares and refundable fares. Refundable fares
may not be available on all flights. Refundable fares are not available for
group reservations (as further explained in Section 5). Refundable Federal
Government Fares are available only to travelers who utilize a SmartPay
government issued credit card or GTRs. Federal Government Fares are not
available to the general public.
d. No Stopovers are permitted on published fares, except upon combination of
local fares.
e. Carrier does not offer special fares for infants, children, senior citizens, military
personnel or any other category of passenger, except Federal Government
employees.
f. Carrier reserves the right to collect additional taxes, fees or charges imposed
by a governmental entity after the reservation has been made and paid for,
but before transportation commences.
7. Unaccompanied Minors
a. Carrier will not allow any child under the age of five (5) years to travel on any
flight unless accompanied by a Passenger fourteen (14) years of age or older.
b. Subject to an additional fee, unaccompanied children between the ages of five
(5) and under fourteen (14) years will be accepted by Carrier, provided the
child has a Confirmed Reservation, and the flight on which he/she travels is a
non-stop flight. Unaccompanied children will not be accepted on flights with
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-10
JetBlue Airways
intermediate stops, on connecting flights or on Carrier’s flights to and from
London. The parent or adult guardian/custodian must provide Carrier with
the completed Unaccompanied Minor Form, evidencing that the child will be
met by another parent or adult guardian/custodian upon deplaning at his/her
destination. The person meeting the child at his/her destination will be required
to present positive identification and sign a release on the Form. The terms
and conditions of the Form are hereby incorporated by reference.
c. Passengers fourteen (14) years of age or older are considered adults for
purposes of this Section.
d. Carrier reserves the right to limit the number of unaccompanied minors on any
flight in the interest of safety, and such determination is made solely at the
discretion of Carrier. Should Carrier refuse carriage to any unaccompanied
minor on this basis, no recovery is available under Section 27 or 37, but Carrier
will endeavor to accommodate the unaccompanied minor on the next available
flight.
e. Carrier will assign seating to unaccompanied minors entirely at its discretion. If
any additional fees were collected by Carrier for the purpose of a particular seat
assignment for the unaccompanied minor, an appropriate refund will be issued.
f. If any part of the itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35 and if any part of the itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36 for differences regarding additional requirements that
may apply.
8. Infants and Small Children; Child Restraint Systems
a. Carrier encourages all adults traveling with children under the age of two (2)
years to secure the child in an approved car seat or child restraint system in
the child’s own, purchased seat. A paying adult Passenger may carry, free
of charge, on his or her lap, one child over three (3) days and under two (2)
years of age. For Passengers departing from international destinations with
lap infants, Carrier will collect APHIS (Department of Agriculture) and INS
(Customs and Border Protection) taxes at the airport for the lap infant. Carrier
reserves the right to request proof of age (e.g. passport, birth certificate or
immunization record) before accepting an infant for travel as a lap child. Infants
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-11
JetBlue Airways
between three (3) and fourteen (14) days old must have written approval from
their attending physician to travel. Carrier does not reserve a seat for such
children unless a separate reservation is purchased at the regular, applicable
fare.
b. If a separate reservation has been made for the child over three (3) days and
under two (2) years of age, the child may travel in a separate seat, provided
that the child must be securely placed in an FAA-approved child restraint
system that conforms to the following guidelines:
1. Car seats manufactured on or after February 26, 1985 must bear two
labels, (1) “THIS RESTRAINT IS CERTIFIED FOR USE IN MOTOR
VEHICLES AND AIRCRAFT”, in red lettering; and (2) “THIS CHILD
RESTRAINT SYSTEM CONFORMS TO ALL APPLICABLE FEDERAL
MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS,” this second statement
need not be in red lettering.
2. Car seats manufactured between 1981 and 1985 must state “THIS
CHILD RESTRAINT SYSTEM CONFORMS TO ALL APPLICABLE
FEDERAL MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY STANDARDS.”
3. FAA approved CARES Child Restraint System must state “FAA
APPROVED IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14 CFR PART 21.305(D)
APPROVED FOR AIRCRAFT USE ONLY.”
4. Booster type seats, vest and harness type child restraint systems,
lap held child restraints or seats manufactured before 1981 are not
acceptable for use.
5. Child restraint systems may not be used in an emergency exit row, aisle
seat or middle seat if the window seat is occupied.
6. It is the responsibility of the child’s parent or accompanying adult to
ensure that the restraint device functions correctly, that the child is
adequately secured by the device, that the child’s weight does not
exceed applicable limitations and that the device has been properly
secured to the aircraft seat.
7. Children may not be placed in booster seats, restraint vests, restraint
harnesses and other devices not meeting the FAA requirements set
forth above.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-12



JetBlue Airways
9. Inspection of Passengers and Baggage
Baggage tendered for transportation either as checked baggage or as carry-on baggage
is subject to inspection for security and safety reasons. Passengers and their baggage
are subject to inspection with or without the Passenger's consent or knowledge.
10. Carry-on Baggage
a. All carry-on baggage must be stowed in an overhead bin or placed completely
under the passenger seat directly in front of the Passenger. Carry-on baggage
is the sole responsibility of the Passenger. Claims for lost, forgotten, or stolen
carry-on baggage will not be accepted by Carrier, except as otherwise required
by applicable law.
b. For Blue Fare, Blue Plus Fare, Blue Extra Fare, and Mint, provided there is
space for its stowage at the time the Passenger boards, each Passenger is
restricted to one (1) carry-on item that must be placed in the overhead bin. On
all aircraft, carry-on items must not exceed external dimensions of twenty-two
inches by fourteen inches by nine inches (22” x 14” x 9”), except for musical
instruments as set forth in Section 10F. In addition to the one (1) carry-on
item, Passenger may carry a small personal item such as a purse, briefcase,
laptop computer case, small backpack, or a small camera. The personal item
must fit completely under the seat in front of the Passenger. On any given
flight, Carrier reserves the right to further restrict the number of carry-on items
as circumstances may require. For Blue Basic Fares, except for itineraries
including travel on Carrier to or from the United Kingdom, Passengers are
restricted to one (1) personal item, as described above, and a Passenger
traveling on a Blue Basic Fare that brings any carry-on item, as described
above, to the gate will incur the applicable excess baggage charges as
described in Section 13 and the item will be handled as checked baggage.
c. Mobility and other Assistive Devices upon which a Qualified Individual with a
Disability is dependent may be carried in addition to the carry-on baggage
allowance.
d. Pets
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-13
JetBlue Airways
1. No animals are allowed to be transported on Carrier as checked
baggage; however, Carrier will permit small dogs and cats to be
transported by Passengers in-cabin (no other animals are allowed).
Pets will not be permitted in Mint. Passengers are responsible for
complying with any applicable laws and/or governmental regulations
of the destination to and from which the animal is being transported,
including furnishing valid health and rabies vaccination certificates when
required. The charge to the Passenger for transporting a pet in-cabin
is One Hundred and Twenty-Five Dollars ($125) per pet, each way. A
Passenger may not transport more than one pet per flight. Payment
must be made at the time the Passenger makes his or her reservation.
2. All in-cabin pets must be transported in an approved kennel, with only
one pet per kennel.
3. In certain cases, search and rescue dogs may be permitted to travel on
Carrier. A fee may apply.
4. maximum of six pets may travel in-cabin on any flight.
5. Refer to Section 34 for restrictions relating to travel to and from
international destinations.
6. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please
see Section 35 for differences regarding acceptance of pets.
7. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner, please see
Section 36 for differences regarding acceptance of pets.
e. Service Animals
1. Carrier will accept Service Animals for use by Qualified Individuals with
a Disability to accompany a Passenger on a flight at no charge. Only
two Service Animals will be accepted per traveling Qualified Individual
with a Disability and Service Animals must be harnessed, leashed,
or otherwise tethered. Upon request, Carrier, or airport personnel, as
applicable, will escort a Passenger with a Service Animal to an animal
relief area at the airport.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-14
JetBlue Airways
2. Carrier requires that a Passenger traveling with a Service Animal
provide 48 hours’ advance notice prior to travel and the submission at
the time of notice the applicable form attesting to the animal’s training
and good behavior, and certifying the animal’s good health.
3. Carrier will permit a Service Animal to accompany a Passenger who is a
Qualified Individual with a Disability in any seat in which the Passenger
sits, as long as the Service Animal fits within the Passenger’s foot space
without obstructing an aisle or other area that must remain unobstructed
in order to facilitate emergency evacuation. Service Animals may not
occupy a seat.
4. For travel to/from international destinations or to/from Puerto Rico or
the U.S. Virgin Islands, certain additional health requirements may
apply. Refer to Section 34 for restrictions relating to travel to and from
international destinations.
5. A trained Service Animal being delivered to its owner's domicile by a
trainer will be permitted to travel at no charge.
6. Animals in training will not be transported.
7. Passenger assumes full responsibility for the conduct of his or her
accompanying Service Animal. In the event Carrier incurs any loss,
damage, delay, expense or legal liability of any kind in connection with
the transport of such animal, Passenger accepts full liability for and
shall reimburse Carrier for all such sums incurred.
8. Carrier reserves the right to refuse transport of a Service Animal if
the animal is too large to permit safe transport, exhibits aggressive
behavior, demonstrates behavior that is inappropriate for a public setting
or is otherwise determined by Carrier to pose a safety or security threat.
f. Musical Instruments
1. Small musical instruments (such as violins and guitars) of an appropriate
size and weight are permitted for stowage in the overhead bin or under
a Passenger seat on a first-come, first-served basis if there is space for
such stowage at the time the Passenger boards, and will count as the
Passenger’s carry-on item.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-15
JetBlue Airways
2. Large musical instruments (such as basses and cellos) of a size
that prevents the instrument from being handled as normal carry-on
baggage, and electronic equipment of a size that prevents it from being
handled as normal carry-on baggage, will be accepted in the aircraft
cabin subject to the following:
a. the instrument or equipment must be contained in a case and
the weight of the instrument, including the case or covering,
cannot exceed one hundred and sixty five (165) pounds;
b. the Passenger carrying the instrument or equipment in
the aircraft cabin has purchased the additional seat(s) to
accommodate the instrument or equipment ; and
c. the instrument or equipment can be stowed in accordance with
FAA requirements for carriage of carry-on baggage or cargo.
g. Carrier will refuse baggage articles or items that, for whatever reason, might
create a risk of harm to the aircraft, its crew or its Passengers.
h. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36.
11. Checked Baggage General
Subject to operational constraints and the restrictions set forth below, Carrier will
check the baggage of a fare-paying Passenger for the flight on which the Passenger is
traveling. Passenger may not check baggage for transportation on any flight other than
the flight on which the Passenger is traveling. Carrier will not check baggage to a
destination other than the final destination on the Passenger’s reservation. Acceptance
of baggage by Carrier is subject to the following terms and conditions:
a. Each piece of baggage must have a current identification tag or label on the
outside containing the Passenger's name, address and telephone number;
b. Carrier will refuse to accept property as baggage which, because of its nature
or characteristics, might cause damage to other baggage; and
c. Carrier will not accept as baggage any article which cannot be carried in the
baggage compartment of the aircraft.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-16



JetBlue Airways
Passengers may check baggage up to four (4) hours prior to their scheduled departure,
provided that the Passengers remain in the airport facility. See Section 34 for additional
restrictions that apply to international destinations.
If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see Section 35. If
part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner, please see Section 36.
12. Baggage Allowance
Carrier will allow Passengers with Confirmed Reservations the following included
checked baggage allowance (see Section 34 for additional terms and restrictions that
may apply to international travel):
a. For Blue Plus Fares one (1) piece of baggage and Mint two (2) pieces of
baggage, of which the sum of the greatest outside length, plus the greatest
outside width, plus the greatest outside height does not exceed sixty-two
(62) inches for any individual piece or sporting equipment as described in
Section 13B and weighing less than 51 pounds. In the case of oversize and
overweight baggage or items, excess baggage charges described in Section
13 may apply, except for travel to and from international destinations, which
is governed by Section 34.
b. One infant stroller and one infant car seat may be checked in addition to the
included baggage allowance at no charge to any Passenger.
c. Mobility and Assistive Devices which cannot be carried in the cabin due
to space limitations will be checked and carried in addition to the included
baggage allowance, without charge, provided the Passenger is dependent
upon such items.
d. One musical instrument packed in a hard-sided container may be transported
as the Passenger’s checked baggage in accordance with the included baggage
allowance if meeting the size and weight restrictions contained in Section 12A.
In the case of large or additional musical instruments, excess baggage charges
described in Section 13 may apply.
e. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-17
JetBlue Airways
13. Excess Baggage Charges
a. The following excess baggage fees apply (see Section 34 for additional terms
and restrictions that may apply to international travel and for the excess
baggage fees that apply to itineraries including travel on Carrier to or from
the United Kingdom):
1. For Blue Basic Fares, Blue Fares, and Blue Extra Fares, one (1) piece
of baggage that meets the weight and size limitations set forth in
Section 12 is subject to a charge of Thirty Five Dollars ($35).
2. For all Fares except Mint, a second piece of checked baggage that
meets the weight and size limitations set forth in Section 12 is subject to
a charge of Forty Five Dollars ($45).
3. For all Fares, including Mint, baggage in excess of two pieces that
meets the weight and size limitations set forth in Section 12 is subject
to a charge of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150) per piece, except
as further limited to certain international destinations as described in
Section 34.
4. Baggage in excess of sixty-two (62) inches but less than eighty (80)
inches (sum of outside length plus outside height plus outside width) is
subject to an oversize charge of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150)
per piece, with the exception of a standard hard-sided golf bag of up to
eighty (80) inches which will not be subject to oversize fees. Baggage in
excess of eighty (80) inches will not be accepted as checked baggage.
5. Baggage weighing between fifty-one (51) pounds and ninety-nine (99)
pounds is subject to an excess weight charge of One Hundred and Fifty
Dollars ($150) per piece. Baggage weighing one hundred (100) pounds
or more will not be accepted as checked baggage.
6. An item of baggage that exceeds the included baggage allowance
described in Section 12, is oversized, and/or overweight will be subject
to a combined fee.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-18
JetBlue Airways
7. For Blue Basic Fares, any carry-on item that is checked at the gate will
be subject to a gate check fee in the amount of the applicable baggage
fee under this Section and an additional amount of up to Thirty Dollars
($30).
8. Notwithstanding the foregoing restrictions, military Passengers may
check one duffel bag, B-4 bag, or sea bag which exceeds the sixty-two
(62) inches in dimensions in lieu of one (1) included bag. In addition,
hanging garment bags with outside dimensions up to ninety (90) inches
will be accepted as part of the included baggage allowance, if the bags
are flexible.
b. Passengers may check the following items of sporting equipment properly
packed in an appropriate hard-sided container, with each listed category
counting as one bag for purposes of the included baggage allowance explained
in Section 12:
1. one (1) golf bag containing not more than fourteen (14) golf clubs, three
(3) golf balls and one (1) pair of golf shoes;
2. fishing equipment containing not more than two (2) fishing rods, one
(1) reel, one (1) landing net, one (1) pair of fishing boots and one (1)
fishing tackle box;
3. one (1) pair of snow skis or one snowboard packed in a suitable
container, with one (1) pair of ski boots;
4. one (1) pair of water skis, one (1) tow rope and one (1) life preserver
belt or vest, packed in a suitable container;
5. one (1) sporting gun case holding no more than two (2) rifles, two (2)
shotguns, or four (4) pistols, each unloaded, subject to restrictions on
firearms set forth in Section 14 and Section 34 for travel to and from
international destinations;
6. one (1) bowling ball bag, designed for this purpose, one (1) bowling ball,
and one (1) pair of bowling shoes; or
7. two (2) hockey or lacrosse sticks, taped together.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-19
JetBlue Airways
Sporting equipment items checked in excess of the one (1) bag allowance
will be subject to standard excess baggage charges. Refer to Section 34 for
restrictions relating to travel to and from international destinations.
c. The following items are excluded from the baggage weight and size limitations
set forth above, except that items weighing one hundred (100) pounds or more,
unless otherwise noted, will not be accepted as checked baggage. These
items shall be acceptable for carriage upon a Passenger’s compliance with all
special packing requirements and payment of applicable fees:
1. single seat, non-motorized bicycles will be accepted as baggage if
packaged in a hard-sided, padded bicycle case. Pedals and handlebars
must be removed and stored so as to not create a risk of damage to
other baggage;
2. surfboards, with a single surfboard packed in each surfboard case and
properly packed to prevent damage to the board and other baggage; or
3. windsurfing and kitesurfing boards, when properly packed to prevent
damage to the board, sail, boom, related equipment and to other
baggage.
4. Musical instruments, when packed in a hard-sided container, where
the weight of the musical instrument (including the container) does
not exceed one hundred and sixty-five (165) pounds and the sum of
the greatest outside length, plus the greatest outside width, plus the
greatest outside height of the container does not exceed one hundred
and fifty (150) inches.
d. Refer to Section 34 for additional terms and restrictions that may apply to travel
to and from certain international destinations.
e. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-20
JetBlue Airways
14. Firearms
a. Carrier will refuse to accept for transportation any firearms and ammunition
other than sporting firearms that are not loaded and that are suitably encased.
Rifles and shotguns must be packed in either a lockable crush-proof container
specifically designed for the firearm, or in its own lockable hard sided case.
Handguns must be packed inside a lockable hard sided gun case or in its own
lockable hard sided case. Carrier will not accept for transportation any firearms
in cases or luggage that cannot be locked.
b. All firearms require a Firearms Unloaded Declaration Tag to be read and
signed by the Passenger. The Passenger is solely responsible for clearing the
weapon of any live charges.
c. Passengers may check up to eleven (11) pounds of ammunition as checked
baggage only. Ammunition must be housed separately from a locked firearm.
The ammunition must be packaged in the manufacturer’s original container or
other fiber, wood or metal box that provides for adequate cartridge separation
and is specifically designed to carry ammunition. Under no circumstances may
a Passenger carry ammunition on board an aircraft.
d. Passengers under the age of eighteen (18) will not be allowed to check any
type of firearm as checked baggage.
e. When checking a weapon, Passengers must declare to a representative of
Carrier that a weapon is being checked. If a security checkpoint is located prior
to the check-in counter of Carrier, the Passenger must declare the existence
of a weapon to security personnel.
f. Firearms are not permitted to be carried or checked as baggage for travel
to or from international destinations without prior government approval and
supporting documents as governed by Section 34. If appropriate prior
government approval and supporting documents are received, Sections
14A through 14F shall apply to carriage of firearms and ammunition to all
international destinations.
g. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-21














JetBlue Airways
15. Dangerous Goods
Federal law prohibits hazardous materials from being included in either checked or
carry-on baggage. Items such as explosives, compressed gases, oxidizers, corrosives,
flammable liquids and solids, loaded firearms, radioactive materials and poisons are
considered hazardous. Some common examples of prohibited items include paints,
mace/tear gas, lighter fluid, oxygen bottles and fireworks. Other common items that may
be carried, in limited quantities, within baggage include hairspray, perfume, and certain
medicines that the Passenger must use during flight. Dry ice will be accepted within
carry-on or checked baggage if the dry ice is contained in a package that (a) allows the
release of carbon dioxide, (b) is plainly marked with the words “dry ice” or “carbon
dioxide solid” together with the net weight of the dry ice and the name of the contents
being cooled, and (c) the package contains less than five and a half (5.5) pounds of dry
ice. Self-heating meals will be accepted within carry-on or checked baggage; however
activation and use of self-heating meals will be prohibited onboard the aircraft.
16. Wheelchairs and Wheelchair Batteries
Last Revised: 2023-03-08
Carrier will accept wheelchairs, whether manually operated or battery operated, as
checked baggage on the same flight as the Passenger who uses the device, unless the
Passenger requests stowage of his or her manual wheelchair within the cabin (subject to
the specific aircraft configuration or other applicable limitations).
In addition to manual wheelchairs, Carrier will accept for in-cabin stowage other mobility
aids such as crutches, braces, canes, and walkers, provided approved stowage is
available and complies with federal regulations. Other Assistive Devices, including
prescription medicine, syringes, or auto-injectors to administer medicine and other
medical equipment discussed in Section 17 may be stowed and used within the cabin.
If a manual wheelchair, mobility device or other Assistive Device cannot be stowed
in-cabin, Carrier will transport them in the baggage compartment.
Carrier will accept additional wheelchair batteries and battery-powered wheelchairs
with the battery attached if the battery is labeled by the manufacturer as non-spillable.
Batteries lacking non-spillable manufacturer labeling and spillable batteries that cannot
remain in an upright position must be placed in special shipping boxes. Due to the
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-22













JetBlue Airways
advance notice requirement that may apply to obtaining these boxes, Passengers should
advise Carrier at least forty-eight (48) hours before scheduled departure of the need for
an appropriate battery box. Carrier will accept lithium batteries for in-cabin stowage with
terminals taped or enclosed in a case. For stowage in the baggage compartment, only
lithium batteries whose terminals are completely enclosed in a case are permitted, all
others must be removed from the device and stowed in the cabin. Damaged or leaking
batteries will not be transported.
Carrier will accept from Passengers written directions on disassembly and reassembly of
wheelchairs, other mobility aids, and Assistive Devices. As described in Section 12C
and Section 18, respectively, excess baggage charges and limits on liability for loss or
damage to any items described in this paragraph do not apply where such charges or
limits are prohibited by law or regulation.
If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see Section 35. If
part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner, please see Section 36.
17. Medical Equipment and Supplies
Carrier will allow a Qualified Individual with a Disability to use in the passenger cabin a
personal ventilator, respirator, continuous positive airway pressure machine (CPAP),
bilevel positive airway pressure machine (BiPap) or an FAA-approved portable oxygen
concentrator (POC). These medical devices must meet FAA requirements, display a
manufacturer's label that it meets such requirements, and can only be stowed and
used consistent with FAA, TSA and PHMSA regulations. Passengers must bring an
adequate supply of non-spillable batteries, plainly marked as such, to last for 150% of
the expected travel time. Carrier may deny boarding if a Passenger does not comply
with the foregoing requirements.
18. Baggage - Limitation of Liability
Carrier will accept as checked baggage such personal property as is necessary or
appropriate for the wear, use, comfort, or convenience of the Passenger for the purpose
of the trip, subject to the following conditions:
a. International Transportation: Please see Section 23.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-23
JetBlue Airways
b. Domestic Transportation: Carrier’s liability for loss of, damage to or delay in
the delivery of checked or unchecked baggage or its contents is limited to
proven damage or loss. Under no circumstances will Carrier’s liability exceed
Three Thousand Eight Hundred Dollars ($3,800), unless Passenger is traveling
with wheelchairs, mobility aids and/or Assistive Devices or Passenger has
purchased excess coverage. Qualified Individuals with a Disability traveling
with wheelchairs or Assistive Devices, or mobility aids will have no limit on
liability for repair or replacement of such wheelchairs, Assistive Devices, or
mobility aids. To obtain excess coverage, Passenger must declare excess
valuation at the time of check-in and pay an additional charge of One Dollar
($1.00) for each One Hundred Dollars ($100), or fraction thereof, of excess
valuation. Maximum liability is not to exceed Five Thousand Dollars ($5,000),
including the Three Thousand Eight Hundred Dollar ($3,800) standard liability
per Passenger. Excess coverage is not available on items described in
Sections 18F, 19 or 20. Passengers must make a reasonable effort to minimize
the amount of damage or loss. Actual value for reimbursement of lost or
damaged property shall be determined by the documented original purchase
price less any applicable depreciation for prior usage or damage.
c. Carrier will be liable for personal property only for the period in which it is in the
custody of Carrier. Carrier will assume no liability or responsibility for property
carried onboard an aircraft by a Passenger and retained in the custody of the
Passenger, except as otherwise required by applicable law.
d. Carrier’s liability for loss, delay or damage to baggage is limited, unless a
higher value is declared in advance and additional charges are paid. When
excess value is declared, baggage will be checked and excess valuation
charges collected only to point of Stopover or to destination.
e. Baggage checked at the Gate or on board the aircraft will be subject to the
same restrictions and liability limits as baggage checked at the ticket counter.
f. Carrier will not accept for carriage medicines, money, checks, securities,
jewelry (including watches), wigs, cameras, video, audio and other electronic
equipment (including computers, software or music devices), CDs, DVDs,
automotive parts, boat parts, silverware, optical equipment (including contact
lenses), dental and orthodontic devices or equipment, keys, negotiable papers,
securities, business documents, samples, items intended for sale, paintings,
antiques, artifacts, manuscripts, animal antlers, furs, irreplaceable books,
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-24







JetBlue Airways
writing instruments, heirlooms, collector’s items or publications and similar
valuables contained in checked or unchecked baggage. Excess valuation
may not be declared on any such items. Passengers are encouraged to carry
such valuable items personally. In the case of domestic transportation, Carrier
reserves the right to require the Passenger to sign a limited liability release
before accepting any such items for transportation. In the case of domestic
transportation, if any valuable items of the type described in this paragraph are
lost, damaged or delayed, Passenger will not be entitled to any reimbursement
or compensation from Carrier, whether or not a limited liability release has
been signed by Passenger.
g. Carrier shall not be liable for loss or damage to items including but not limited
to baggage wheels, pockets, pull handles, handles, zippers, hanger hooks,
external locks, pull straps or security straps resulting from fair wear and tear or
the ordinary handling of baggage. Further, Carrier shall not be liable for loss,
damage or delay caused by manufacturer’s defect, by overpacked baggage or
as a result of the inherent defect or quality of the baggage.
h. Under no circumstances shall Carrier be liable to any Passenger for any type
of special, incidental or consequential damages related to the damage, loss or
delay of checked baggage.
i. If part of your itinerary involves travel on a Codeshare Partner, please see
Section 35. If part of your itinerary involves travel on an interline partner,
please see Section 36.
19. Fragile and Perishable Items as Baggage
Carrier, in its discretion, may refuse to accept any fragile or perishable goods.
For domestic transportation, Carrier assumes no liability for fragile or perishable goods.
Excess valuation may not be declared on such items. If Carrier does accept such
goods for transportation, in the case of domestic transportation, it reserves the right to
require the Passenger to sign a limited release with respect to such goods. In the case
of domestic transportation, Carrier shall not be responsible for loss, damage or delay of
such fragile items whether or not such a limited release has been signed by the
Passenger.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-25












JetBlue Airways
Fragile items include, without limitation, items such as bicycles, blueprints, cameras,
ceramics, china, crystal, dolls, figurines, flash equipment, flowers, glass or glass
containers, lenses, maps, mirrors, models, musical instruments or equipment, paintings,
perfumes, makeup, liquids, bottles, plants, sculptures, strollers, trophies, vases and
wines.
Perishable items include, without limitation, items such as: fruits, vegetables, meats,
fish, poultry, bakery products and other forms of food, flowers and floral displays and
plants. Such items may also be subject to applicable agriculture rules of the destination
jurisdiction. Dry ice shipments are limited by dangerous goods regulations and are
discussed separately in Section 15.
20. Improperly Packaged and Damaged Items; Late Items
Carrier reserves the right to refuse to transport items that are improperly packaged or
that are damaged at the time the item is checked, or that are presented to be checked as
baggage less than forty (40) minutes before scheduled domestic flight departure and
sixty (60) minutes before scheduled international flight departure. Refer to Section 34 for
restrictions relating to travel to and from international destinations. If such items are
accepted, Carrier is not liable for any loss or damage resulting from the inherent defect
or quality of the item. As a condition of accepting such items, Carrier may require the
Passenger to sign a limited liability release form. Carrier shall not be responsible for
loss, damage or delay of such items whether or not such a limited release has been
signed by the Passenger.
21. Smoking and Vaping
Smoking or vaping aboard the aircraft is prohibited in accordance with federal law.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-26
JetBlue Airways
22. Notice of Claims
a. For domestic transportation, initial notice of any claim for loss, damage, or
delay in delivery of baggage must be given at any Passenger service counter
or any office of Carrier within four (4) hours after arrival of the flight on which
the loss, damage or delay is alleged to have occurred. Confirming written
notice of any baggage related claim, and initial written notice of any other type
of claim against Carrier, with appropriate details of the claim, must be given to
Carrier not more than twenty-one (21) days after occurrence of the event giving
rise to the claim. Failure to give notice within these time limits will not bar the
claim if the claimant establishes to the satisfaction of Carrier that he/she was
unable to give such notice. For domestic transportation, legal action on any
claim described above must be brought within one (1) year of Carrier's written
denial, in whole or in part, of the claim.
b. For international transportation, please see Section 23.
c. With respect to any claim for compensation of any nature, Passenger must
submit their claim directly to Carrier and allow 28 days, or any shorter time as
prescribed by local law, for Carrier to respond. Carrier will not accept or process
any claims submitted by a third party on behalf of any Passenger unless this
period has elapsed without a response to Passenger. Notwithstanding this
limitation, Carrier will permit a Passenger to make a claim on behalf of other
Passengers on the same reservation, Passengers lacking capacity to submit
their own claims, and claims on behalf of minor Passengers. Carrier may
require and evaluate proof that any party other than Passenger is authorized to
submit a claim on their behalf. Passenger may consult with legal or other third
party advisors before submitting a claim directly. Claims may be submitted
online at www.jetblue.com/customer-assurance/our-promise.
23. Advice to International Passengers on Carrier Liability
a. Application of Montreal or Warsaw Convention: For the purposes of
international carriage governed by the Montreal Convention or the Warsaw
Convention, whichever may apply, the liability rules set out in the applicable
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-27
JetBlue Airways
Convention as implemented by this Section are fully incorporated by reference
in this Contract of Carriage and shall supersede any other provisions of this
contract which may be inconsistent with those rules.
b. Death or Injury of Passengers:
1. The Carrier shall be liable under Article 17 of the Montreal Convention
or Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply, for recoverable
compensatory damages sustained in the case of death or bodily injury
of a Passenger, as provided in the following paragraphs:
a. The Carrier shall not be able to exclude or limit its liability for
damages not exceeding 128,821 Special Drawing Rights for
each Passenger.
b. The Carrier shall not be liable for damages to the extent that they
exceed 128,821 Special Drawing Rights for each Passenger
if the Carrier proves that: (i) such damage was not due to the
negligence or other wrongful act or omission of the Carrier or its
servants or agents; or (ii) such damage was solely due to the
negligence or other wrongful act or omission of a third party.
c. The Carrier reserves all other defenses and limitations available
under the Montreal Convention or Warsaw Convention,
whichever may apply, to such claims including, but not limited to,
the exoneration defense of Article 20 of the Montreal Convention
and Article 21 of the Warsaw Convention, except that the Carrier
shall not invoke Articles 20 and 22(1) of the Warsaw Convention
in a manner inconsistent with paragraphs (a) and (b) hereof.
d. With respect to third parties, the Carrier reserves all rights of
recourse against any other person, including, without limitation,
rights of contribution and indemnity.
e. The Carrier agrees that, subject to applicable law, recoverable
compensatory damages for such claims may be determined by
reference to the laws of the country of the domicile or country of
permanent residence of the Passenger.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-28
JetBlue Airways
2. In cases of bodily injury or death, the Carrier shall make an advance
payment where the Carrier determines it is necessary to meet the
immediate economic needs of, and hardship suffered by, a Passenger
as provided in the following paragraphs:
a. Unless a dispute arises over the identity of the person to
whom an advance payment shall be made, the Carrier shall,
without delay, make the advance payment to the Passenger
in an amount or amounts determined by the Carrier in its sole
discretion. In the event of death of a Passenger, the amount
of the advance payment shall not be less than 16,000 Special
Drawing Rights, which shall be paid to a representative of
the Passenger’s next of kin eligible to receive such advance
payment as determined by the Carrier in its sole discretion.
b. The Carrier shall make the advance payment as an advance
against the Carrier’s liability under the Montreal Convention or
the Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply. An advance
payment shall not constitute recognition of liability. An advance
payment shall be offset against, or deducted from the payment
of, any settlement or judgment with respect to any claim for
compensation on behalf of the Passenger.
c. The Carrier, in making an advance payment, does not waive
any rights, defenses, or limitations available under the Montreal
Convention or the Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply,
to any claim, nor shall acceptance of an advance payment
constitute a release of any claim, whatsoever, by any person.
d. The Carrier, in making an advance payment, preserves its right
to seek contribution or indemnity from any other person for
such payment, which shall not be deemed to be a voluntary
contribution or contractual payment on the part of the Carrier.
e. The Carrier may recover an advance payment from any person
where it is proven that the Carrier is not liable for any damage
sustained by the Passenger, or where it is proven that the
person was not entitled to receive the payment, or where and
to the extent that it is proven that the person who received the
advance payment caused, or contributed to, the damage.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-29
JetBlue Airways
c. Delay of Passengers: The Carrier shall be liable for damage occasioned
by delay in the carriage of Passengers by air, as provided in the following
paragraphs:
1. The Carrier shall not be liable if it proves that it and its servants and
agents took all measures that could reasonably be required to avoid the
damage, or that it was impossible for it or them to take such measures.
2. Airport, Air Traffic Control, security, and other facilities or personnel,
whether public or private, not under the control and direction of the
Carrier are not servants or agents of the Carrier, and the Carrier is not
liable to the extent the delay is caused by these kinds of facilities or
personnel.
3. Damages occasioned by delay are subject to the terms, limitations
and defenses set forth in the Montreal Convention and the Warsaw
Convention, whichever may apply. They include foreseeable
compensatory damages sustained by a Passenger and do not include
mental injury damages.
4. The Carrier reserves all defenses and limitations available under the
Montreal Convention or the Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply
to claims for damage occasioned by delay, including, but not limited to,
the exoneration defense of Article 20 of the Montreal Convention and
Article 21 of the Warsaw Convention. Under the Montreal Convention,
the liability of the Carrier for damage caused by delay is limited to 5,346
Special Drawing Rights per Passenger. The limits of liability shall not
apply in cases described in Article 22(5) of the Montreal Convention or
Article 25 of the Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply.
d. Destruction, Loss, or Delay of Baggage: The Carrier is liable for damages
sustained in the case of destruction or loss of, damage to, or delay of checked
and unchecked Baggage, as provided in the following paragraphs:
1. Except as provided below, the liability of the Carrier is limited to 1,288
Special Drawing Rights for each passenger in the case of destruction,
loss, damage, or delay of Baggage, whether checked or unchecked,
under the Montreal Convention or the Warsaw Convention, whichever
may apply. Unless the Passenger proves otherwise:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-30
JetBlue Airways
i. All Baggage checked by a Passenger shall be considered to be
the property of that Passenger;
ii. A particular piece of Baggage, checked or unchecked, shall not
be considered to be the property of more than one Passenger;
iii. Unchecked Baggage, including personal items, shall be
considered to be the property of the Passenger in possession of
the Baggage at the time of embarkation
2. If a Passenger makes, at the time checked Baggage is handed to the
Carrier, a special declaration of interest and has paid a supplementary
sum, if applicable, the Carrier will be liable for destruction, loss,
damage, or delay of such checked Baggage in an amount not
exceeding the declared amount, unless the Carrier proves that the
declared amount is greater than the Passenger’s actual interest in
delivery at destination. The declared amount, and the Carrier’s liability,
shall not exceed the total amount of declaration permissible under
the Carrier’s regulations, inclusive of the limitation of paragraph D(1)
hereof. In the case of transportation under the Warsaw Convention, no
supplementary sum shall apply unless the declared amount exceeds
19 Special Drawing Rights per kilogram of the total recorded weight of
the checked Baggage at the time the Baggage is handed to the Carrier.
Nevertheless, the Carrier may impose charges for pieces of Baggage in
excess of any free allowance the Carrier may provide.
3. In the case of unchecked Baggage, the Carrier is liable only to the extent
the damage resulted from its fault, or that of its servants or agents.
4. The Carrier is not liable for destruction, loss, damage, or delay of
baggage not in the charge of the Carrier, including Baggage undergoing
security inspections or measures not under the control and direction of
the carrier.
5. The Carrier reserves all defenses and limitations available under
the Montreal Convention and the Warsaw Convention, whichever
may apply, to such claims including, but not limited to, the defense of
Article 20 of the Warsaw Convention and Article 19 of the Montreal
Convention, and the exoneration defense of Article 21 of the Warsaw
Convention and Article 20 of the Montreal Convention, except that the
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-31
JetBlue Airways
Carrier shall not invoke Article 22(2) and (3) of the Warsaw Convention
in a manner inconsistent with paragraph D(1) hereof. The limits of
liability shall not apply in cases described in Article 25 of the Warsaw
Convention or Article 22(5) of the Montreal Convention, whichever
may apply.
e. Time Limitations on Claims and Actions: Under the Montreal Convention and
the Warsaw Convention, whichever may apply, an action for damages must be
brought within two years, and a complaint must be made to the Carrier no later
than seven (7) calendar days in the case of damage to baggage, and twenty
one (21) calendar days in the case of delay thereof.
f. ADVICE TO INTERNATIONAL PASSENGERS ON CARRIER LIABILITY:
1. Passengers on a journey involving an ultimate destination or a stop in a
country other than the country of departure are advised that international
treaties known as the Montreal Convention, or its predecessor, the
Warsaw Convention, including its amendments, may apply to the
entire journey, including any portion thereof within a country. For such
passengers, the treaty, including special contracts of carriage embodied
in applicable tariffs, governs and may limit the liability of the Carrier in
respect of death or injury to passengers, and for destruction or loss of,
or damage to, baggage, and for delay of passengers and baggage.
2. Limits of Liability in connection with services provided in the European
Union (EU): The applicable limits of liability for your journey on a flight
ticketed by this carrier are:
a. There are no financial limits for death or bodily injury and the
air carrier may make an advance payment to meet immediate
economic needs of the person entitled to claim compensation;
b. In the case of destruction, loss of, or damage or delay to
baggage, 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per passenger in
most cases. You may benefit from a higher limit of liability for
loss of, damage or delay to baggage by making at check-in a
special declaration of the value of your baggage and paying any
supplementary fee that may apply. Alternatively, if the value of
your baggage exceeds the applicable limit of liability, you should
fully insure it before you travel;
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-32


JetBlue Airways
c. In the case of delay to your journey, 5,346 Special Drawing
Rights per passenger.
If your journey involves carriage by other carriers please contact them for information
on their limits of liability.
24. Refusal to Transport
Passengers will be refused transportation on Carrier for reasons including, but not
limited to, the following:
a. Passengers whose transportation on Carrier must be denied in order to comply
with any government regulation, or to comply with any governmental request
for emergency transportation in connection with the national defense.
b. Passengers whose transportation on Carrier is reasonably deemed by Carrier
to be inadvisable or inappropriate due to special circumstances or concerns
beyond the control of Carrier, including, without limitation, a Force Majeure
Event.
c. Passengers who refuse to permit a search of his or her person or property for
explosives or for concealed, deadly or dangerous weapons or other prohibited
articles, or who refuse on request to produce positive identification.
d. Passengers requiring medical oxygen for use on board the aircraft, incubators
or hook-ups for a respirator to the aircraft electrical power supply, or persons
who must travel on a stretcher. However, JetBlue will not deny boarding to
a Qualified Individual with a Disability who travels with a Portable Oxygen
Concentrator (POC) unless such individual must use the POC during the flight
with a hook-up to the aircraft electrical power supply.
e. A Qualified Individual with a Disability pursuant to 14 CFR Part 382 whose
carriage may impair the safety of the flight or violate Federal Aviation
Regulations. Carrier may require that a Qualified Individual with a Disability be
accompanied by an assistant as a condition of being provided air transportation
under the following circumstances:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-33
JetBlue Airways
1. person who, because of a mental disability, is unable to comprehend
or respond accordingly to safety instructions from Carrier personnel,
including the safety briefing required by 14 CFR Parts 121.571(a)(3)
and (a)(4); or the safety regulations of a foreign carrier’s government,
as applicable;
2. person with a mobility impairment so severe that the person is unable to
physically assist in his or her own evacuation of the aircraft;
3. person who has both severe hearing and severe vision impairments,
if the person cannot establish some means of communication with
Carrier personnel that is adequate to both permit transmission of the
safety briefing required by 14 CFR Part 121.571(a)(3) or (a)(4) or the
safety regulations of a foreign carrier’s government, as applicable, and
to enable the Passenger to assist in his or her own evacuation of the
aircraft in the event of an emergency;
4. If Carrier determines that a person meeting the criteria of paragraph
E(1), (2) or (3) of this Section must travel with an assistant, contrary to
the individual's self-assessment that he or she is capable of traveling
independently, Carrier will not charge for the transportation of the
assistant while accompanying a Qualified Individual with a Disability
requiring an assistant at Carrier’s discretion:
i. If, because there is not a seat available on a flight for an assistant
whom Carrier has determined to be necessary, a Qualified
Individual with a Disability with a Confirmed Reservation is
unable to travel on the flight, the Qualified Individual with a
Disability will be eligible for denied boarding compensation
under Section 27;
ii. For purposes of determining whether a seat is available for an
assistant, the assistant shall be deemed to have checked in at
the same time as the Qualified Individual with a Disability; and
iii. Carrier is not required to find or provide a safety assistant.
f. Comfort and Safety: In the following categories where refusal or removal may
be necessary for the comfort or safety of the Passenger(s) or other Passengers:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-34
JetBlue Airways
1. Persons whose conduct is or has been known to be disorderly, abusive,
offensive, threatening, intimidating violent, or whose clothing is lewd,
obscene, or patently offensive;
2. Persons who are barefoot and over five (5) years old;
3. Persons who are unable to sit in the seat in the full upright position
with the seat belt fastened;
4. Persons who appear to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs;
5. Persons with a communicable disease or infection whose condition
poses a direct threat to the health or safety of others. However, Carrier
will permit a Passenger who meets the foregoing criteria to travel if
he/she provides a medical certificate to Carrier dated within ten (10)
days of the scheduled date of travel from the Passenger's physician
stating that the Passenger is capable of completing the flight safely
without requiring extraordinary medical assistance;
6. Persons who refuse to comply with instructions given by Carrier station
management, supervisory personnel or uniformed flight crew;
7. Persons who have an offensive odor, except where such condition is
the result of a qualified disability;
8. Persons who wear or have on or about their persons concealed or
unconcealed deadly or dangerous weapons; provided, however, that
Carrier will carry Passengers who meet the qualifications and conditions
established in 14 CFR Part 108.11;
9. Manacled persons in the custody of law enforcement personnel;
persons brought to the airport in manacles; persons who have resisted
escorts; or escorted persons who express to Carrier personnel objection
to the flight;
10. Persons who have misrepresented a condition which becomes evident
upon arrival at the airport, and the condition is unacceptable for
passage;
11. Pregnant Passengers expecting to deliver within seven (7) days, unless
such Passenger provides a doctor’s certificate dated no more than
seventy-two (72) hours prior to departure stating that the doctor has
examined and found the Passenger to be physically fit for air travel
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-35
JetBlue Airways
to and from the destination requested on the date of the flight and
that the estimated date of delivery is after the date of the last flight in
the Passenger’s itinerary. In the case of codeshare travel, codeshare
partner may have more restrictive terms. In the case of Interline
Transportation, the interline partner may have more restrictive terms;
12. Passengers between the age of three (3) and fourteen (14) days, unless
attending physician approves travel;
13. Passengers who are unwilling or unable to abide by Carrier’s
no-smoking rules; and
14. Carrier will not refuse to provide transportation to a Qualified Individual
with a Disability solely because the person's disability results in
appearance or involuntary behavior that may offend, annoy or
inconvenience crewmembers or other Passengers. Carrier will not
provide certain extensive inflight special services including, but not
limited to, assistance in actual eating, assistance within the restroom
or assistance at the Passenger's seat with elimination functions,
or provision of medical services. In the case of codeshare travel,
codeshare partner may have more restrictive terms. In the case of
Interline Transportation, the interline partner may have more restrictive
terms.
15. Any Passenger who cannot be transported safely for any reason.
g. The tickets of any Passenger refused passage or removed en route under the
provisions of this Section 24 will be refunded in accordance with Section 26.
Such a refund shall be the sole recourse of any Passenger refused passage
or removed en route. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES WILL CARRIER BE
LIABLE TO ANY PASSENGER OR REFUSED PASSENGER FOR ANY TYPE
OF INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.
25. Failure to Operate as Scheduled
a. Whenever Carrier cancels or otherwise fails to operate any scheduled flight,
Carrier will, at the request of the Passenger, either (i) transport the Passenger
on another of Carrier’s flights on which space is available in the same class
of service at no additional charge, or (ii) provide Passenger with a full refund
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-36
JetBlue Airways
in accordance with Section 26. Except as may be provided in Section 37,
Carrier shall have no other liability or responsibility to any Passenger as a
result of a failure to operate any flight. UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL
CARRIER BE LIABLE TO ANY PASSENGER FOR ANY TYPE OF SPECIAL,
INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.
b. Carrier will endeavor to carry Passengers and their baggage with reasonable
dispatch, but times shown in schedules or elsewhere are not guaranteed and
form no part of this Contract of Carriage. Carrier may, without notice, substitute
alternate carriers or aircraft and, if necessary, may alter or omit intermediate
stops shown on the reservation. All schedules are subject to change without
notice. Carrier is not responsible and assumes no liability for failure to make
connections on its own flights or the flights of any other airline. UNDER NO
CIRCUMSTANCES SHALL CARRIER BE LIABLE TO ANY PASSENGER FOR
ANY TYPE OF SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES.
c. Except as provided above, Carrier shall have no liability for damages for any
delay, flight cancellation, or default in performing hereunder if such delay,
cancellation or default is caused by conditions beyond its control due to force
majeure. As used in this section, “force majeure” means actual, threatened
or reported:
1. Weather conditions or acts of God;
2. Riots, civil unrest, protests, embargoes, pandemic declaration or public
health emergency, war, hostilities, or unsettled international conditions;
3. Strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, lockout, or any other labor-related
dispute;
4. Wars, embargos, or other hostilities;
5. Government regulation, demand, directive or requirement;
6. Shortages of labor, fuel, or facilities; or
7. Any other condition or cause beyond Carrier’s control or any fact not
reasonably foreseen by Carrier.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-37









JetBlue Airways
26. Relief for Failure to Transport / Failure to Operate
If Carrier cancels a flight or fails to operate a flight as scheduled, the Passenger may
be entitled to relief under the provisions of Section 37. If Carrier denies boarding to a
Passenger with a valid reservation, the Passenger will be entitled, at his or her option,
to either (i) transportation at no extra charge on another of Carrier’s flights to the same
destination, subject to space availability, or (ii) a refund of the applicable fare paid by
Passenger. When a portion of the trip has been made, the refund will be made in an
amount equal to the applicable one-way fare (less any applicable discount) for the
portion of the trip cancelled or not operated as scheduled by Carrier.
27. Denied Boarding Compensation
a. If a Passenger holding a Confirmed Reservation presents him or herself for
carriage at the appropriate time and place, having complied fully with Carrier's
requirements as to reservations and check-in, and if the flight for which the
Passenger holds a Confirmed Reservation is oversold and, due to oversales,
JetBlue is unable to accommodate the Passenger and departs without him
or her, the Passenger shall be entitled to the denied boarding compensation
described in Section 27B immediately below, unless (i) the Passenger responds
to Carrier’s request for volunteers and who willingly accepts Carriers’ offer of
compensation, in any amount; or (ii) one of the exceptions to eligibility for
denied boarding compensation in Section 27D below applies. For the sake of
clarity, a Passenger who responds to Carrier’s request for volunteers and who
willingly accepts Carrier’s offer of compensation shall not be considered to
be involuntarily denied boarding and shall not be entitled to denied boarding
compensation.
b. Passenger who is denied boarding involuntarily, subject to the exceptions in
Section 27D below, shall be entitled to One Thousand Five Hundred and Fifty
Dollars ($1,550).
c. Acceptance of denied boarding compensation relieves Carrier from any further
liability caused by its failure to honor the Passenger’s original Confirmed
Reservation.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-38
JetBlue Airways
d. Passengers denied boarding involuntarily are not entitled to denied boarding
compensation if:
1. The Passenger does not fully comply with this Contract of Carriage
regarding ticketing, reconfirmation, check-in, acceptability for
transportation;
2. The flight originates in the United Kingdom or a European Community
state;
3. The flight for which the Passenger holds a Confirmed Reservation is
unable to accommodate that Passenger because of substitution of
equipment of lesser capacity when required by operational or safety
reasons;
4. The Passenger is offered accommodations or is seated in a section of
the aircraft other than that specified on the ticket at no extra charge,
except that a Passenger seated in a section for which a lower fare is
charged shall be entitled to an appropriate refund;
5. Carrier arranges alternate transportation, or other transportation used
by the Passenger at no extra cost to the Passenger, that at the time
such arrangements are made is planned to arrive at the airport of
the Passenger’s next Stopover or, if none, at the airport of the final
destination not later than one (1) hour after the planned arrival time of
the Passenger’s original flight; or
6. The Passenger voluntarily relinquishes his or her Confirmed
Reservation in exchange for compensation offered by Carrier.
e. In determining which Passengers holding Confirmed Reservations shall be
denied boarding involuntarily, Carrier shall deny boarding to such Passengers
in the order of when Passengers checked in, commencing with those
Passengers who checked in last.
f. Before denied boarding occurs, Carrier will give a written explanatory statement
to Passengers who are denied boarding.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-39





















JetBlue Airways
28. Reservations on Other Carriers
Carrier will only accept reservations made on, or tickets issued by, other carriers, in
accordance with federal law when a carrier has ceased operations following bankruptcy.
29. Right to Change Contract of Carriage
Carrier reserves the right, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law, to change,
delete, or add to any of the terms of this Contract of Carriage without prior notice.
All changes must be in writing and must be available for public inspection at each of
Carrier's ticket offices. To the extent there is a conflict between the Contract of Carriage
and your itinerary, ServiceNow, or other publications, the Contract of Carriage governs.
Previous versions of the Contract of Carriage may be obtained by contacting JetBlue at
1-800-JETBLUE (deaf or hard of hearing customers TTY/TDD line available by dialing
711) or by contacting us through https://www.jetblue.com/contact-us.
30. Ground Transportation
Ground transportation is exclusively the responsibility of Passenger.
31. Check Acceptance
Carrier will not accept checks as payment for purchase, except in the case of Group
Reservations as defined in Section 5. For Group Reservations, personal checks made
payable to Carrier for the exact amount of purchase must include imprinted name,
mailing address and telephone number. A valid driver's license with picture (or valid
passport) as personal identification is r equired. Carrier reserves the right to require that
checks be approved by a third-party check approval system.
A service charge of Fifteen Dollars ($15) will be assessed to a Passenger on all returned
checks. This service charge is in addition to any applicable bank charges assessed
against Carrier or the Passenger.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-40




















JetBlue Airways
32. Government Laws and Regulations
All transportation is sold and all carriage is performed subject to compliance with all
applicable government laws and regulations, including those of the Federal Aviation
Administration and U.S. Department of Transportation, Transportation Security
Administration, and all applicable Conventions, special contracts, treaties, and tariffs,
many of which are not specified herein but are nevertheless binding on Carrier and
all Passengers.
Carrier shall not be liable for any damage arising out of its compliance with any laws,
government regulations, orders, rules, requirements or security directives or as a result
of Passenger’s failure to comply with such laws, government regulations, orders, rules,
requirements or security directives or as a result of Passenger’s reliance on advice
provided by JetBlue regarding such laws, regulations, orders, rules, requirements or
security directives.
Immigration and Customs Regulations: It is the Passenger's responsibility to obtain and
have possession of all required travel documents. Carrier assumes no responsibility for
compliance by Passengers with immigration and customs laws and regulations of each
country from, through, or to which a flight is operated. Carrier shall not be responsible
for any information or assistance given to a Passenger by any agent in connection with
obtaining such necessary documents or complying with such laws and regulations,
or any consequence to any Passenger resulting from his or her failure to obtain such
documents and comply with such laws and regulations.
33. U.S. Territory Travel
For all travel to and from U.S. territories, the following rules apply:
a. Satellite TV and other inflight connectivity services, where available, may be
inoperative on the transoceanic portions of the flight. Carrier is not liable, in
contract or otherwise, to the Passenger for any such unavailability of satellite
TV or other inflight connectivity.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-41

JetBlue Airways
b. Passengers remain responsible for any and all documentation requirements
and proof of citizenship. Carrier shall not be responsible for a Passenger’s
failure to present or provide documentation required under the applicable
laws of the territories to or from which a Passenger travels or through which
Passenger may transit.
34. International Travel
For international travel on a Carrier-operated flight the following rules apply:
a. Baggage:
1. For travel to and from Guyana, Haiti or Trinidad and Tobago, Carrier will
not accept oversized (over sixty-two (62) inches in overall dimensions)
baggage or baggage weighing over seventy (70) pounds. Excess or
overweight baggage (between 51 and 70 pounds) may be subject to
excess baggage charges as set forth in Section 13. Checked baggage
in excess of two (2) pieces will not be accepted between November 16
and January 15 or during any Carrier baggage embargo period.
2. For travel to and from the Dominican Republic and Peru, Carrier will
not accept oversized (over sixty-two (62) inches in overall dimensions)
baggage or baggage weighing over seventy (70) pounds. Excess or
overweight baggage (between 51 and 70 pounds) may be subject to
excess baggage charges as set forth in Section 13.
3. For travel to and from Ecuador, Carrier will not accept more than two (2)
pieces of checked baggage and will not accept oversized (over sixty-two
(62) inches in overall dimensions) baggage or baggage weighing over
seventy (70) pounds. A first and second piece of checked baggage or
overweight baggage (between 51 and 70 pounds) may be subject to
excess baggage charges as set forth in Section 13.
4. For travel to and from Cuba, Carrier will not accept more than five (5)
pieces of checked baggage and will not accept oversized (over sixty-two
(62) inches in overall dimensions) baggage or baggage weighing over
seventy (70) pounds. A first, second, third, fourth and fifth piece of
checked baggage or overweight baggage (between 51 and 70 pounds)
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-42
JetBlue Airways
may be subject to excess baggage charges as set forth in Section 13.
Checked baggage in excess of three (3) pieces will not be accepted
during any Carrier baggage embargo period.
5. For travel to and from the United Kingdom, the following excess
baggage fees apply in the prevailing local currency:
a. For Blue Basic Fares, Blue Fares, and Blue Extra Fares, one (1)
piece of baggage that meets the weight and size limitations set
forth in Section 12 is subject to a charge of Sixty Five Dollars
($65) or Fifty Five Pounds (£55).
b. For all Fares except Mint, a second piece of checked baggage
that meets the weight and size limitations set forth in Section 12
is subject to a charge of One Hundred and Five Dollars ($105)
or Eighty<M Five Pounds (£85).
c. For all Fares, including Mint, baggage in excess of two pieces
that meets the weight and size limitations set forth in Section 12
is subject to a charge of Two Hundred Dollars ($200) or One
Hundred and Fifty Pounds (£150) per piece.
d. Baggage in excess of sixty-two (62) inches but less than eighty
(80) inches (sum of outside length plus outside height plus
outside width) is subject to an oversize charge of One Hundred
and Fifty Dollars ($150) or One Hundred and Twenty Pounds
(£120) per piece, with the exception of a standard hard-sided
golf bag of up to eighty (80) inches which will not be subject to
oversize fees. Baggage in excess of eighty (80) inches will not
be accepted as checked baggage.
e. Baggage weighing between fifty-one (51) pounds and
ninety-nine (99) pounds is subject to an excess weight charge
of One Hundred and Fifty Dollars ($150) or One Hundred
and Twenty Pounds (£120) per piece. Baggage weighing one
hundred (100) pounds or more will not be accepted as checked
baggage.
f. An item of baggage that exceeds the included baggage
allowance described in Section 12, is oversized, and/or
overweight will be subject to a combined fee.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-43
JetBlue Airways
6. Except as noted above, for travel to and from all international
destinations, Carrier will accept excess, overweight and/or oversized
baggage on an aircraft weight (load factor) basis. If accepted by Carrier,
excess, overweight and/or oversized baggage may be subject to excess
baggage charges as set forth in Section 13.
7. With respect to sporting equipment, for travel to and from the Dominican
Republic, Haiti, Peru or Trinidad and Tobago, bicycles, hockey sticks,
lacrosse sticks, skis, snowboards and water skis will not be accepted.
For travel to and from Bermuda; Cuba; Santo Domingo, Dominican
Republic; Santiago, Dominican Republic; Haiti, Peru or Trinidad and
Tobago, surfboards, kitesurfing boards and windsurfing boards will not
be accepted.
8. No boxes will be permitted as checked baggage except for travel to and
from Cuba, as set forth within this section. If such items are accepted,
Carrier may require the Passenger to sign a limited liability release
form. Carrier shall not be responsible for loss, damage or delay of
such items whether or not such a limited release has been signed by
the Passenger.
9. For travel to and from Cuba, factory sealed boxes may be accepted
subject to the excess baggage charges as set forth within this section
and in Section 13. No boxes will be accepted during any Carrier
baggage embargo period.
10. Carrier reserves the right to refuse to transport items that are presented
to be checked as baggage less than sixty (60) minutes before scheduled
flight departure.
b. Pets and Service Animals: Passengers are responsible for complying with any
applicable laws and/or governmental regulations of the destination to and from
which the animal is being transported, including furnishing valid health and
rabies vaccination certificates, when required. Due to the strict requirements
mandated by the local governments of Barbados and Trinidad and Tobago
the transport of live animals and pets is not permitted by Carrier for travel
to those countries. For travel to and from the United Kingdom, pets will not
be permitted by Carrier, and Service Animals will be permitted by Carrier as
required by applicable laws.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-44
JetBlue Airways
c. Firearms: Firearms are not permitted to be carried or checked as baggage
without prior government approval and supporting documentation.
d. Satellite TV and inflight connectivity services: On all flights to and from
international destinations, satellite TV and other inflight connectivity services,
where available, may be inoperative on the transoceanic portions of the flight.
Carrier is not liable, in contract or otherwise, to the Passenger for any such
unavailability of such services.
e. Transit Without Visa: Carrier will not permit transit without visa.
f. Documentation: Passengers are responsible for any and all documentation
requirements and proof of citizenship. Carrier shall not be responsible for
a Passenger’s failure to present or provide documentation required under
the applicable laws of the territories to or from which a Passenger travels
or through which Passenger may transit. Subject to applicable law and
regulations, Passenger agrees to pay the applicable fare in the event Carrier,
on government order, is required to return Passenger to their point of origin or
elsewhere due to Passenger's inadmissibility into or deportation from a country,
whether of transit or of destination. The fare applicable will be the fare in effect
when the ticket is issued, and any difference between this fare and any unused
fare paid by Passenger will be collected from or refunded to Passenger as
applicable. The fare collected for carriage to the point of refusal or deportation
will not be refunded by the Carrier, unless such refund is compelled by local law.
With respect to travel to Cuba, Passengers are responsible for determining
their applicable license category and Carrier shall not be responsible for a
Passenger’s failure to comply with such licensing requirements.
g. Conflict With Local Law: Except where otherwise mandated by applicable
international law or treaty, should the enforcement of any provision of this
Contract of Carriage conflict with the domestic law or regulation of a non-U.S.
state, the invalidation or non-enforcement of that provision to comply with such
local law does not otherwise invalidate the enforceability of any contractual
terms not implicated thereby.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-45
JetBlue Airways
35. Codeshare Flights
a. Operated by Codeshare Partner: Carrier has entered into codeshare
arrangements with certain Codeshare Partners enabling Carrier to provide
air transportation services to Passengers on flights operated by Codeshare
Partners. Transportation provided by Carrier under a codeshare arrangement
is designated by a flight number that includes Carrier’s two-letter airline
designator code, “B6.” However, the flight is operated by a Codeshare Partner.
Those Passengers purchasing tickets for a Carrier flight (any ticket for a flight
with designator code “B6” in the flight number on Passenger’s itinerary), are
subject to the Contract of Carriage with Carrier, regardless of the airline
operating the flight. Carrier accepts responsibility for the entirety of that journey
under Carrier’s designator code pursuant to this Contract of Carriage.
Each Codeshare Partner promulgates rules with respect to the operation of
its own flights, and some may differ from Carrier’s rules for flights operated by
Carrier. For example, a Codeshare Partner may have rules governing check-in
requirements, carriage of animals, baggage, baggage liability, carriage of
musical instruments, smoking, unaccompanied minors and/or denied boarding
compensation that differ from Carrier’s rules for flights Carrier operates.
Additionally, when a Codeshare Partner operates a flight on which Carrier’s
designator code “B6” appears on the Passenger’s itinerary, the Codeshare
Partner’s contingency plan for lengthy tarmac delays applies. The conditions of
carriage of Carrier’s Codeshare Partners are available at the following links and
are incorporated herein by reference. Passengers traveling on a flight operated
by a Codeshare Partner should review the applicable conditions of carriage to
ensure familiarity and compliance with all rules and terms.
Carrier does not allow unaccompanied minors on flights with intermediate
stops or on connecting flights, therefore, if travel involves transfer to or from
a Codeshare Partner, unaccompanied minors will not be allowed. However,
an unaccompanied minor may be allowed to travel on a Codeshare Partner’s
non-stop itinerary. The Codeshare Partner’s rules governing unaccompanied
minors will apply and you may need to contact the Codeshare Partner directly.
1. American Airlines:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-46
JetBlue Airways
https://www.aa.com/i18n/customer-service/support/
conditions-of-carriage.jsp
2. Cape Air:
https://www.capeair.com/flying_with_us/carriage_05.pdf
3. Emirates:
http://www.emirates.com/english/plan_book/essential_information/
rules_and_notices/rules_notices.aspx
4. Hawaiian Airlines:
https://www.hawaiianairlines.com/legal/domestic-contract-of-carriage
5. Icelandair:
http://www.icelandair.us/information/about-icelandair/privacy-terms/
6. JetSuite:
https://www.jetsuitex.com/ContractofCarriage.pdf
7. Seabourne:
http://www.seaborneairlines.com/fly-with-us/contract-of-carriage/
8. Silver Airways:
http://www.silverairways.com/docs/site/legaldocs/contract-of-carriage
9. South African Airways:
http://www.flysaa.com/Journeys/conditions_of_Contract.action
b. Operated by Carrier: Carrier also enters into certain codeshare relationships
where another airline places its code on certain Carrier-operated flights. If you
have purchased a ticket on a flight operated by Carrier but your ticket includes
another airline’s designator code in the flight number, your condition of carriage
is with that airline, not Carrier. For example, the following airlines may place
their code on certain Carrier-operated flights, and the conditions of carriage
applicable to transportation on such flights are available at the following links.
1. Aer Lingus:
http://www.aerlingus.com/i18n/en/htmlPopups/conds_of_carriage.html
2. American Airlines:
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-47
JetBlue Airways
https://www.aa.com/i18n/customer-service/support/
conditions-of-carriage.jsp
3. Azul – Linhas Aereas Brasileiras:
http://www.voeazul.com.br/en/flights-international/contract-of-carriage
4. El Al:
http://www.elal.co.il/elal/english/terms_conditions/
termsandconditions070108.html
5. Emirates:
http://www.emirates.com/english/plan_book/essential_information/
rules_and_notices/rules_notices.aspx
6. Etihad:
http://www.etihad.com/en/legal/conditions-of-carriage/
7. Hawaiian Airlines:
https://www.hawaiianairlines.com/legal/domestic-contract-of-carriage
8. Icelandair:
http://www.icelandair.us/information/about-icelandair/privacy-terms/
9. Japan Airlines:
http://www.jal.co.jp/en/carriage/index_c001.html
10. Qatar:
https://www.qatarairways.com/en-us/legal/conditions-of-carriage.html
11. Royal Air Maroc:
http://www.royalairmaroc.com/us-en/Travel-Info/
General-terms-and-conditions
12. Singapore Airlines:
http://www.singaporeair.com/jsp/cms/en_UK/global_footer/
conditions-carriage.jsp
13. South African Airways:
http://www.flysaa.com/Journeys/conditions_of_Contract.action
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-48












JetBlue Airways
14. TAP Portugal:
https://www.flytap.com/en-pt/transport-conditions
15. Turkish Airlines:
https://www.turkishairlines.com/en-us/legal-notice/
general-conditions-of-carriage/index.html
36. Interline Transportation
When Carrier undertakes to issue a ticket, check baggage, or make any other
arrangements for transportation over the lines of any other airline on an interline basis
(whether or not such transportation is part of a through service), Carrier will act only as
agent for such other airline in these limited capacities, and will assume no responsibility
for the acts or omissions of such other airline, including but not limited to, providing
flight status information, delays and other acts or omissions that arise from their flight
operations.
Transportation on any interline partner is governed by that airline’s contract or conditions
of carriage. CARRIER SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DEATH OR INJURY TO A
PASSENGER OCCURRING ON A FLIGHT THAT IS NOT OPERATED BY CARRIER. In
the case of transportation on a Carrier-operated flight as part of an interline itinerary,
transportation is governed by Carrier’s Contract of Carriage, except in the following
areas where the interline partner’s rules may apply:
1. Baggage acceptance, policies and fees including, but not limited to, size,
weight and quantity as well as acceptance of certain items, including musical
instruments;
2. Carriage of unaccompanied minors and/or young adults;
3. Carriage of pets in the cabin of the aircraft;
4. Policies for carriage of pregnant passengers; and
5. Changes, cancellations and refunds.
With respect to baggage in particular, as required by the U.S. Department of
Transportation, baggage service charges for your entire itinerary are determined by
the marketing carrier for the first segment of your itinerary. Your originating marketing
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-49
JetBlue Airways
carrier is defined as the airline whose flight number is assigned to the first segment of
your itinerary. If this airline is not Carrier, different charges may apply. Baggage service
charges are those in effect on the date of ticketing.
In the case of transportation on a Cape Air flight, due to the size of Cape Air’s aircraft and
operational limitations, certain terms and conditions differ from those of Carrier, including:
1. Policies and procedures for carriage of Assistive Devices for Qualified
Individuals with a Disability (e.g. wheelchairs); and
2. Policies and procedures for Qualified Individuals with a Disability. For example,
Passengers must be able to climb three (3) stairs to board a Cape Air-operated
flight with or without an assistant.
Carrier does not allow unaccompanied minors on flights with intermediate stops or on
connecting flights, therefore, if travel involves transfer to or from an interline partner’s
flight, unaccompanied minors will not be allowed. However, an unaccompanied minor
may be allowed to travel on an interline partner’s non-stop itinerary. The interline
partner’s rules governing unaccompanied minors will apply and you may need to contact
the interline partner directly.
For more information, please see the interline partner’s contract or conditions of carriage.
1. Aer Lingus:
http://www.aerlingus.com/i18n/en/htmlPopups/conds_of_carriage.html
2. Aeroflot:
http://www.aeroflot.com/cms/en/before_and_after_fly/pact
3. Air China:
http://www.airchina.com.cn/www/en/html/index/general_conditions_o/
general_passenger/1006/
4. Air India:
http://www.airindia.in/Images/pdf/Conditions_Carriage.pdf
5. Air Italy:
https://www.airitaly.com/en-en/legalinfo/index.aspx
6. Air Serbia:
https://www.airserbia.com/en/conditions-of-carriage
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-50
JetBlue Airways
7. All Nippon Airways:
http://www.ana.co.jp/wws/us/e/asw_common/siteinfo/conditions-of-carriage/
8. Asiana Airlines:
https://flyasiana.com/C/US/EN/contents/
terms-of-transportation-and-notification
9. Avianca:
http://www.avianca.com/en-mx/contract-of-carriage.aspx
10. Azul – Linhas Aereas Brasileiras:
http://www.voeazul.com.br/en/flights-international/contract-of-carriage
11. British Airways:
http://www.britishairways.com/travel/genconcarr/public/en_us
12. Brussels Airlines:
http://www.brusselsairlines.com/en-be/misc/conditions.aspx
13. Cape Air:
https://www.capeair.com/flying_with_us/carriage_05.pdf
14. Cathay Pacific:
http://www.cathaypacific.com/content/dam/cx/legal-and-privacy/
general-conditions-of-carriage-for-passengers-baggage-en.pdf
15. China Airlines:
https://www.china-airlines.com/nl/en/terms-and-conditions/
transportation-clauses
16. China Eastern:
https://ca.ceair.com/newCMS/ca/en/content/en_Footer/AboutUS/201903/
t20190328_4431.html
17. China Southern:
https://global.csair.com/US/GB/booking-policy/international-carriage-conditions
18. Condor Air:
https://www.condor.com/us/help-contact/gtbc.jsp
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-51
JetBlue Airways
19. Egyptair:
http://www.egyptair.com/en/Pages/Conditions-of-Carriage.aspx
20. El Al:
http://www.elal.co.il/elal/english/terms_conditions/
termsandconditions070108.html
21. Emirates:
http://www.emirates.com/english/plan_book/essential_information/
rules_and_notices/rules_notices.aspx
22. Etihad Airways:
http://www.etihad.com/en/legal/conditions-of-carriage/
23. EVA Air:
http://www.evaair.com/en-us/conditions-of-carriage/
24. FlyDubai:
https://www.flydubai.com/en/information/policies/conditions-of-carriage
25. Hainan Airlines:
https://www.hainanairlines.com/HUPortal/dyn/portal/DisplayPage?
COUNTRY_SITE=US=CBHZCBHZ=US=GCIC
26. Hawaiian Airlines:
https://www.hawaiianairlines.com/legal/domestic-contract-of-carriage
27. Iberia:
http://www.iberia.com/us/bills/conditions/
28. Icelandair:
http://www.icelandair.us/information/about-icelandair/privacy-terms/
29. Interjet:
https://www.interjet.com/en-us/legal-information/regulations-and-policies/
contract-of-carriage
30. Japan Airlines:
http://www.jal.co.jp/en/carriage/index_c001.html
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-52
JetBlue Airways
31. JSX:
https://www.jetsuitex.com/ContractofCarriage.pdf
32. Korean Air:
https://www.koreanair.com/global/en/footers/terms-of-carriage.html
33. LATAM Airlines:
https://www.latam.com/en_un/transparency/
airport-transport-agreement-conditions/
34. LIAT:
http://www.liat.com/UserFiles/File/
Conditions%20of%20Carriage%20FINAL.pdf
35. LOT Polish Airlines:
http://www.lot.com/us/en/web/newlot/conditions-of-carriage
36. Lufthansa:
https://www.lufthansa.com/xx/en/business-terms-and-conditions-1
37. Porter Airlines:
https://www.flyporter.com/travel/Conditions-Of-Carriage?culture=en-CA
38. Qatar Airways:
http://www.qatarairways.com/us/en/conditions-of-carriage.page
39. Royal Air Maroc:
http://www.royalairmaroc.com/us-en/Travel-Info/General-terms-and-conditions
40. SATA:
https://www.azoresairlines.pt/en/information/customer-commitment/
general-conditions-of-carriage
41. Saudi Arabian Airlines:
https://www.saudia.com/help/useful-links/legal-and-terms-and-conditions/
general-conditions-of-carriage
42. Seaborne:
http://www.seaborneairlines.com/fly-with-us/contract-of-carriage/
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-53
JetBlue Airways
43. Silver Airways:
http://www.silverairways.com/docs/site/legaldocs/contract-of-carriage
44. Singapore Airlines:
http://www.singaporeair.com/jsp/cms/en_UK/global_footer/
conditions-carriage.jsp
45. South African Airways:
http://www.flysaa.com/Journeys/conditions_of_Contract.action
46. TAP Portugal:
https://www.flytap.com/en-pt/transport-conditions
47. Turkish Airlines:
https://www.turkishairlines.com/en-pt/legal-notice/
general-conditions-of-carriage/index.html
48. Ukraine International Airlines:
https://www.flyuia.com/us/en/information/rules-and-regulations/
carriage-agreement
37. Tarmac Contingency Plan, Cancellations, Delays, and
Overbookings
a. GENERAL
1. JetBlue has coordinated relevant portions of its Tarmac Contingency
Plan with airport authorities at all U.S. large, medium, small, and no hub
airports JetBlue serves, including U.S. large, medium, small, and no
hub diversion airports. JetBlue has sufficient resources to implement
this Plan.
2. All refunds of one-way or round trip travel under this Section 37, shall
exclude taxes and fees. To the extent a Passenger is entitled to a
refund but did not purchase travel through a Carrier booking channel
(1-800-JETBLUE, jetblue.com or at the airport or a city ticket office),
the Passenger will be responsible for contacting Carrier to obtain
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-54
JetBlue Airways
compensation under this Section 37. All refunds will be to the original
form of payment. To the extent a Passenger booked travel using a
TrueBlue Award, compensation under this Section 37 will be provided in
the form of TrueBlue Points, except in the case of involuntary denied
boarding.
3. Passengers on JetBlue itineraries originating in the United Kingdom or
in a European Community state are not eligible for the compensation
or relief described in this Section 37, except to the extent that the
provision of any component of such compensation or relief is otherwise
independently compelled by applicable local law or regulation and/or
claimed consistent therewith.
b. INFORMATION
JetBlue will notify Passengers of the following: known delays of thirty (30)
minutes or more, cancellations, and diversions. Notification will be given
in any of the following forms: via jetblue.com, via telephone (upon request),
on flight information display systems, via airport announcement, via onboard
announcement, via email or via text message.
c. CANCELLATIONS
A Passenger whose flight is cancelled by JetBlue will receive, at the
Passenger’s option, a full refund or reaccommodation on the next available
JetBlue flight in the same class of service at no additional charge or fare,
except when a portion of the trip has been made. Any refund will be made in an
amount equal to the applicable one-way fare for the portion of the trip cancelled
or not operated as scheduled by JetBlue.
d. GROUND DELAYS
At all U.S. large, medium, small, and no hub airports JetBlue serves, including
U.S. large, medium, small, and no hub diversion airports, JetBlue will provide
Passengers experiencing a Ground Delay with food and drink (potable water)
no later than two (2) hours after the aircraft leaves the Gate unless the
Pilot-in-Command determines there is a safety or security-related reason for not
doing so. JetBlue will provide Passengers with, access to operable restrooms
and, as necessary, medical treatment. JetBlue will not permit the aircraft to
remain on a tarmac for more than three (3) hours for domestic flights or for
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-55
JetBlue Airways
more than four (4) hours for international flights, unless the Pilot-in-Command
determines there is a safety-related or security-related reason for remaining on
the tarmac or Air Traffic Control advises the Pilot-in-Command that returning to
the Gate or another disembarkation point elsewhere in order to deplane would
significantly disrupt airport operations.
For Passengers traveling on a Carrier flight operated by a Codeshare Partner,
please see Section 35, as the operating carrier’s contingency plan (i.e. the
Codeshare Partner’s contingency plan) for a Ground Delay will apply.
e. CUSTOMER ASSURANCE POLICIES
JetBlue’s various Customer Assurance policies, which may be revised or
amended at any time without notice, form no part of this Contract of Carriage
and are available at www.jetblue.com/customer-assurance/our-promise.
f. OVERBOOKINGS
Passengers, including those holding Zero Fare Tickets, who are involuntarily
denied boarding as a result of an overbooking shall receive denied boarding
compensation in accordance with Section 27. For the sake of clarity,
a Passenger who responds to Carrier’s request for volunteers and who
willingly accepts Carrier’s offer of compensation shall not be considered to
be involuntarily denied boarding and shall not be entitled to denied boarding
compensation under this Section 37 or Section 27.
38. Passenger Service Plan
a. Carrier sets forth its Passenger Service Plan below. Policies and procedures
addressing the following areas are set forth in the documents hyperlinked. The
hyperlinked documents are directional in nature, do not expressly form a term
of this Contract of Carriage, and are subject to change from time-to-time.
1. Carriers fare rules are set forth in Section 6 of this Contract of Carriage.
Additional rules may be set forth in close proximity to a particular fare.
Passengers calling 1-800-JETBLUE or visiting our Carrier ticket offices
or ticket counters will be offered the lowest available fare, exclusive
of Internet only fares or special fares that may be offered for limited
duration through particular booking channels, when specific dates and
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-56
JetBlue Airways
times are provided. In the event the lowest available fare is not quoted,
Carrier’s liability is limited to the difference between the fare quoted
and the lowest available fare for which the Passenger was eligible at
that time.
2. Carrier will notify Passengers of known delays of thirty (30) minutes or
more, cancellations and diversions.
3. Subject to the terms of this Contract of Carriage including but not limited
to Sections 20 (Improperly Packaged and Damaged Items; Late Items),
25 (Failure to Operate as Scheduled), 26 (Relief for Failure to Transport
/ Failure to Operate) and 32 (Government Laws and Regulations),
and applicable law, Carrier will endeavor to deliver baggage on time,
including making every reasonable effort to return mishandled bags
within twenty-four (24) hours, reimbursing Passengers for reasonable
expenses that occur because of any delay on domestic flights or as
required on international flights and reimbursing Passengers for any
fees associated with transportation of a lost bag.
4. Carrier is an instant purchase airline. Carrier does not hold reservations
without payment.
5. Carrier’s rules regarding fare refunds are set forth in Section 4 of this
Contract of Carriage. Subject to such rules, Carrier strives to provide
credit card refunds promptly and cash or check refunds within twenty
(20) days of receipt of all necessary information. This includes refunds
of fees for optional services on flights from which the Passenger was
bumped due to an oversales situation. Some fares are nonrefundable.
6. Carrier will accommodate Passengers with disabilities and other
special needs, including during Ground Delays consistent with its
obligations under 14 CFR Part 382 or Regulation (EC) No. 1107/2006,
as applicable.
7. Carrier will meet Passengers’ essential needs during Ground Delays
consistent with its obligations under 14 CFR Part 259.4.
8. Carrier will treat “bumped” Passengers with fairness and consistency in
the case of oversales consistent with its obligations under 14 CFR Part
250 and Section 27 (Denied Boarding Compensation) of this Contract
of Carriage.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-57
JetBlue Airways
9. Carrier discloses a Passenger’s travel itinerary as follows:
i. at the time a Passenger pays for a fare on-line; and
ii. in a Passenger’s e-ticket receipt email.
10. Carrier discloses the TrueBlue Frequent Flyer Rules as follows:
i. via http://www.jetblue.com/tb/terms.asp; and
ii. at the time a TrueBlue Member logs into the TrueBlue program
on jetblue.com; and
iii. at the time a TrueBlue Member signs up via jetblue.com to
become a member of TrueBlue or, in the case of Passengers
who sign up via the JetBlue co-branded credit card, at the time a
Passenger activates his or her TrueBlue Account.
11. Carrier discloses the aircraft configuration as follows:
i. via http://help.jetblue.com/SRVS/CGI-BIN/webisapi.dll/,/?
St=183,E=0000000000024436663,K=3792,Sxi=11,Case=
obj(383379); and
ii. by searching “aircraft configuration” under the “help tool” on
jetblue.com
12. If a Passenger’s travel is disrupted due to a Controllable Irregularity and
the Passenger experiences a Departure Delay of six (6) of more hours,
Carrier may, upon request from the Passenger, provide the following
amenities: meal vouchers and/or a hotel voucher.
13. Carrier will notify Passengers in a timely manner of changes to their
travel itinerary.
14. Carrier will ensure responsiveness to consumer problems as required
under 14 CFR Part 259.7.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-58





















JetBlue Airways
39. Personal Information
Carrier may use personal information collected from and about Passenger to perform
the activities contemplated in this Contract of Carriage, including, but not limited
to, Carriage, transfers to Codeshare Partners and other carriers, and transfers to
government entities, as well as further described in Carrier's privacy policy available at
https://www.jetblue.com/legal/privacy. Such personal information may be transmitted
to the United States and other countries.
40. Governing Law/Section Headings/Waiver
United States federal law shall govern any matter relating to or arising under this Contract
of Carriage. To the extent any such matter is not preempted by federal law, the laws
of the State of New York shall apply, without regard to conflict of laws principles Each
Passenger waives the right to a jury trial. The section headings used in this Contract of
Carriage are intended for convenience only and in no way define, limit or describe the
scope or substance of any of the provisions of this document. If Carrier fails to enforce
any of the sections of this Contract of Carriage or fails to exercise any election, such
failure will not be considered to be a waiver of those provisions, rights or elections or
in any way affect the validity of the Contract of Carriage.
Each Passenger agrees, on behalf of themself and anyone on whose behalf they are
purchasing, that any lawsuit brought against Carrier or any of its affiliated entities,
agents, directors, employees, and/or officers related to this Contract of Carriage, their
ticket, and/or their use of or dealings with Carrier’s website will be brought only in an
individual capacity and may not be brought, alleged or asserted as part of a class
action proceeding.
41. Controlling Language
English is the controlling language of this Contract of Carriage. To the extent there is
any conflict between the English translation and another language translation, English
controls.
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-59
JetBlue Airways
[End of Document]
2023-03-08 Revision: 89
Uncontrolled copy when printed or downloaded.
1-60