- Spirit Airlines
	- 2.1.2. Confirmed Reservation Validity
		- No one shall be entitled to transportation without a confirmed reservation. Subject to any applicable limitations or restrictions set forth herein, guests with confirmed reservations will be entitled to transportation between airports of origin and destination. Confirmed reservations are valid for the dates and flights indicated in the reservation.
		- For reservations made in person, the traveler making the purchase may be requested to provide identification that matches the credit card being used for the purchase
		- No reservation paid be credit card shall be considered a confirmed reservation if the transaction is not accepted by the carrier for any reason, whether or not the guest is notified that the reservation has been cancelled
		- Original credit card used may be requested at check0in in order to confirm the reservation

	- 2.2 Refusal to Sell Transportation
		- 2.2.1. Spirit may refuse to sell transportation to any person, including the following, and may inform such persons that they are not permitted to purchase transportation from Spirit:
			- a. Prior misconduct - a person who has disrupted airline operations (at Spirit or other airlines), mistreated employees (of Spirit or others), or has not complied with Spirit's policies or has otherwise violated this Contract of Carriage
			- b. Misconduct - A person who has committed a fraudulent act against Spirit
	- 2.3 Check-in
		- 2.3.1.
			- Guests are required to have a boarding pass in-hand by the check-in time limit outline in section 2.4.1.a. Check-ins begin at least two hours prior to departure at the Spirit airport ticket counter or 24 hours prior to flight departure on Spirit's website (www.spirit.com) if eleigible for online check-in. A boarding Pass service charge will be applied to guests who choose to have their boarding pass printed by an agent at domestic airports except West Palm Beach, FL.

		- 2.3.2. 
			- It is the guest's responsibility to arrive at the airport with enough time to complete check-in and security screening processes, taking into consideration travel time both to and within the applicaable airport, as well as processing through the security check point
			- a.
				- for domestic flights, Spirit recommends that guests arrive at the airport at least two hours prior to (original) scheduled departure.
			- b. 
				- for international flights, Spirit recommends that guests arrive at the airport at least three hours prior to (original) scheduled departure.

		- 2.3.3.
			- Guests wanting to check baggage may do so at the ticket counter one airport check-in begins. Baggage will not be accepted more than four hours before scheduledddeparture time. Baggage must be cheked at the ticket counter at least 45 minutes prior to the (original) scheulded departure time  for all domestic flights, and 60 minutes for all internaitonal flightss includeing U.S.V.I. flights. Guest who present baggage after this time limit may be refused transportation. In the event that baggage is accepted after this time limit, the guest waives any claim for interim expenses (see section 7.3.6.) that reulst from the dealy in delivery and will be liable or any applicaable delivery costs if the bag is not carried on the same flight as the guest


	- 2.4 Cancellation of Reservations
		- 2.4.1. All reservations and seat assignemns are subjet to cancellation without notice if:
			- a. 
				- the guest does not ahve a boarding pass in-hand at least 45 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all domestic flights, and 60 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all international flights including U.S.V.I. flights.

			- b. 
				- The guest fails to make themself availabe for boarding at the gate at least 15 minutes prior to (original) scheduled departure time for domestic flights; or 30 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for international flights even if the guest has already checked in for the flight at a locaiton designated for check-in. 
				- In the event of a delay, guests are recommended to remain in the gate area for updates and possible early departures. Spirit shall not be liable to any guest who misses a lfight, which departed earlier than the estimated departure time posted for the delay.

			- c.
				- The guest fails to travel on any flight segment of a booked itinerary and fails to modify/cancel their reseervation prior to the time limit outline in section 3.3. In such instances, all subsequent flight segments on the itinerary will be cancelled.

			- d. 
				- Such action is necessary to comply with any governmental regulation or direction, or to comply with any governmental request for emergency transportation in connection with the national defense.


			- e.
				- The guest has been informed that he/she is not permitted to purchase transportation from Spirit.


		- 2.4.2. If Spirit refuses to transport the guest for any of the reasons stated above, the guest would not be eligible for denied boarding compensation.

		- 2.4.3. Cancellations due to reasons stated in in sections 2.4.1 a. through c. are subject to a No-Show Cancellation Service Charge in accordance with section 10.5.


	- 3.1 General
		- Fares are subject to change until purchased. All domestic and international fares are per guest for each way of travel and include the base fare plus any applicable taxes, fees and surcharges; however, certain foreign countries may charge additional taxes and fees that are collected directly by the local government or local airport authority upon arrival or departure. Additional Spirit optional services may apply.

		- Spirit offers a range of fares and on certain discount fares, availability may be limited, and restrictions may apply. Subject to certain exceptions and/or restrictions set forth hereinafter, all reservations are non-refundable. All Spirit reservations are non-transferable.

	- 3.2 Currency/Method of Payment
		- 3.2.1. All fares and charges are listed in United States dollars (USD).
		- 3.2.2. Spirit does NOT accept cash, traveler’s checks, certified (cashier’s) checks, and money orders at certain domestic and international airports. At such airports,
			- Spirit will accept credit/debit cards only. For further information, please visit www.spirit.com at https://customersupport.spirit.com/hc/enus/articles/217154817-Can-I-pay-with-cash-. 
			- NOTE: Cash conversion kiosks (operated and independently managed by companies not affiliated with Spirit Airlines) may be available at some airport locations. In no event shall Spirit Airlines be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental or consequential damage arising out of the use of such cash conversion machines.

	- 3.3 Guest Initiated Modifications
		- 3.3.1. Changes to an itinerary must be made at least 45 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all domestic flights, and 60 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all International flights including U.S.V.I. flights (See section 2.4.1.a.). Online changes must be made at least one hourprior to the (original) scheduled departure.
			- Itinerary changes are subject to a per guest service charge, plus any difference in airfare for the alternate requested date(s) or flight(s), and any difference in government taxes and fees. With the exception of optional service charges for carry-on bags and/or first and second checked bags, any difference in carrier’s optional service charges may also apply.

		- 3.3.2. Cancellations to an itinerary must be made at least 45 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all domestic flights, and 60 minutes prior to the (original) scheduled departure time for all International flights including U.S.V.I. flights (See section 2.4.1.a.). Online changes must be made at least one hour prior to the (original) scheduled departure. Itinerary changes are subject to a per guest service charge. A Reservation Credit for future travel on Spirit may be issued if any remaining value exists. Certain
carrier charges may be excluded from the value of the credit. All Reservation Credits are non-transferable, must be booked prior to expiration, and have no cash value. Taxes and fees will not be refunded except when required by
applicable law and when requested. Failure to cancel prior to the time limit specified above will result in forfeiture of fare.

3.3.3. All Spirit fares and optional services are purchased as non-refundable; however, a refund will be allowed if a reservation is canceled within 24 hours of initial booking, provided the reservation was made seven (7) days (168 hours) or more
prior to the flight’s scheduled departure.

3.3.4. Optional services may be purchased separately during the booking process by calling Reservations, on spirit.com or at the airports. Click here for optional services.

3.4 Routing A fare applies only to the following:

3.4.1. Transportation between airports via the intermediate cities, if any, specified by Spirit in reference to that fare.

3.4.2. Reservations may not be issued or accepted for transportation that will either originate or terminate at an airport other than the airport for which the fares are published.


3.5 Children’s Fare
Spirit Airlines does not offer children fares.

3.6 Travel Agent Bookings For security purposes, we strongly recommend that travel agent bookings be made through Spirit’s travel agency portal. Travel agents are responsible for ensuring accurate SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 8 UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023 passenger information and communicating all fare rules and restrictions with guests.
Pursuant to our Contract of Carriage, the original credit card used for booking may be requested at check-in in order to confirm the reservation. Evidence of fraudulent transactions made by a travel agency/agent may result in a ban on that agency/agent conducting business with Spirit.

4.1 Identification
A guest who refuses or fails to produce identification upon request may be denied service.

4.2 Travel Requirements and Documentation
The guest shall comply with all laws, regulations, orders, demands, or travel requirements (including but not limited to passports, visas, and health/immunization requirements) of countries to be flown from, into, or over, and with all rules, regulations, and instructions of Spirit.

4.2.1 Spirit shall not be liable for:
a. any aid or information given by any agent or employee of Spirit to any
guest in connection with obtaining necessary documents or complying with such laws, regulations, orders, demands, requirements, or instructions,
whether given orally, in writing, or otherwise;

b. the consequences to any guest resulting from his/her failure to obtain such
documents or to comply with such laws, regulations, orders, demands,
requirements, or instructions;

c. any expenses incurred due to the guest's failure to comply with this
provision.

4.2.2 Spirit reserves, in its sole discretion, the right to refuse carriage to any guest who has not, in the judgment of Spirit, complied with applicable laws and regulations and Spirit policies.

4.2.3 The guest agrees to pay the applicable fare whenever Spirit, on government order, is required to return a guest to his or her point of origin or elsewhere due to the guest's inadmissibility into or deportation from a country, whether of
transit or of destination.

4.2.4 Spirit reserves the right to hold, photocopy, or otherwise make an image reproduction of a travel document presented by any guest and accepted by
Spirit as a condition of boarding.


4.3 Conduct/Condition
4.3.1. A guest shall not be permitted to board the aircraft or may be required to leave an aircraft if that guest:
a. is disorderly, abusive, violent, or their conduct creates an unreasonable risk of offense or annoyance to other guests;
b. appears to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs;
c. interferes or attempts to interfere with any member of the flight crew in the pursuit of his/her duties, or fails to obey lawful instructions of flight crew members;
d. is or is perceived by the flight crew to pose a security threat or risk of harm or damage to the airline, its aircraft or property, and/or other
guests, or their property;
e. has a contagious disease that is transmissible during the normal course of a flight, e.g., chicken pox;
f. is unable or unwilling to sit in a seat with a seat belt fastened during the normal course of a flight;
g. is barefoot or inadequately clothed, or whose clothing is lewd, obscene, or offensive in nature; or
h. has an offensive odor unless caused by a qualified disability.

4.3.2. If a guest is not permitted to board and/or required to leave an aircraft for safety and/or regulatory reasons under paragraph 4.3 and its sub sections, the guest will not be eligible for a refund.


4.3.3. Diversion of Aircraft - If Spirit is required to divert an aircraft to land at a location other than its intended destination, return an aircraft to a gate during taxi prior to takeoff or if a flight is delayed due to a passenger's disruptive or disorderly conduct, Spirit will be entitled to reimbursement from the passenger for the additional costs that Spirit incurs for such incidents including, but not limited to, costs to accommodate other passengers, excess crew and ground handling costs, fuel and fees. The amount due will be as determined by Spirit.
4.4 Refusal to Transport
Spirit may refuse to transport, or remove from any flight, any guest for the following reasons:
4.4.1. Compliance with any government regulation or with government request for emergency transportation in connection with national defense or national disasters (actual, threatened, or reported).
4.4.2. Whenever necessary or advisable by reason of weather or other conditions beyond its control (including, without limitation, acts of God, labor
disturbances, strikes, civil commotions, embargoes, wars, hostilities, or disturbances) actual, threatened, or reported.
4.4.3. Refusal by a guest to permit a search of person or property for explosives, or for deadly or dangerous weapons, articles, or substances.

4.4.4. Spirit may refuse to transport any guest who is traveling across any international boundary if:
4.4.4.1. the travel documents of such guest are not in order;
4.4.4.2. for any reason, such guest's embarkation from, transit through or entry into any country from, thru, or to which such guest desires transportation would be unlawful; or
4.4.4.3. such guest fails or refuses to comply with the rules and regulations of Spirit.
4.5 Prisoners Spirit Airlines will not transport prisoners in the custody of law enforcement under any circumstances with or without restraints.
4.6 Guests with Disabilities
All guests with disabilities will be provided transportation except when refused transportation per the FAA Regulations regarding safety. Guests with disabilities need not give advance notice. A 48-hour advance notice is only required for the services, equipment, and accommodations stated in the DOT's 14 CFR part 382.27 (c) regarding nondiscrimination on the basis of a disability in air travel.
4.6.1. Attendants Guests with disabilities are not required to travel with an attendant unless it is determined by the carrier that an attendant is essential for safety as stated in the DOT's 14 C.F.R. part 382.29 regarding nondiscrimination on the basis of a disability in air travel. Spirit personnel are not obligated to provide special assistance for personal needs (e.g., assistance in actual eating, assistance within the restroom, provision of medical services).

NOTE: Attendants must be at least 15 years of age at the time of travel.
4.6.2. Medical Certificates
If there is reasonable doubt that a guest can complete their flight safely, without requiring extraordinary medical assistance during flight, a medical certificate may be required in order for the guest to travel. A medical certificate is a written statement from a doctor asserting that an individual is capable of completing a flight safely, without requiring extraordinary medical assistance during flight. Medical certificate must be dated within 10 days of the guest’s departure flight.

4.7 Communicable Disease
If a guest has a disease that is potentially transmissible during flight, a medical certificate is required and must state that the guest’s condition would not be communicable to other guests during the normal course of the flight. If it is potentially transmissible during the flight, but this can be prevented if certain conditions or precautions are implemented, the certificate would have to describe those conditions or precautions. In such instances, Spirit will put forth reasonable effort to carry out these measures, however, if Spirit is unable to do so, the guest will not be permitted to travel. A medical certificate in the situation of a communicable disease must be dated within 10 days of the flight for which the guest intends to travel (not 10 days prior to the guest’s initial departure flight).

4.8 Respiratory Assistive Devices/Portable Oxygen Concentrators (POC) Certain respiratory assistive devices (including portable oxygen concentrators,
respirators, and ventilators) which are approved by the FAA for use in flight may be used on board Spirit Airlines aircraft. Guests using such permitted devices must do so strictly in accordance with applicable regulations, including the carriage of sufficient batteries. Spirit Airlines personnel are not trained to assist with or operate such devices. Guests are encouraged to review any applicable requirements by referring to Spirit's website (www.spirit.com) or by contacting Spirit Airlines Reservations at 855-728-3555. It is also recommended that the guest call Spirit Airlines Reservations at least 48 hours before scheduled departure, to have it documented that the guest will be traveling with and using a respiratory assistive device onboard. To use a POC on board, guests must have an FAA approved POC. For more information, please review Portable Oxygen Concentrators within the Special Items Chart in 7.5.

4.9 Pregnancy
Guests who are pregnant are urged to consult with their physician on whether it is safe to travel by air, including with due consideration the possibility of turbulence, cabin pressurization, significantly increased risk of deep vein thrombosis associated with pregnancy, and lack of ready access to medical care. This is particularly important for women in their ninth month of pregnancy, who are urged to obtain an examination from her physician shortly before flying to confirm that flying by air will be safe. Women with a history of complications or premature delivery should not fly at all. By travelling with Spirit, pregnant women acknowledge and accept these risks.
4.10 Guests of Size Additional Seat Purchase – The purchase of more than one seat for use by a single guest is required to accommodate a guest of size who encroaches on an adjacent seat area and/or is unable to sit in a single seat with the armrests lowered. 4.10.1. The guest of size can either purchase a seat assignment in a Big Front Seat or purchase another reservation for an additional seat on the aircraft. Please see section 4.11.2 for information related to seatbelt extensions and inflatable seatbelts.
4.10.2. If there are no available seats on the aircraft, the guest will be booked on Spirit’s next available flight or the reservation will be refunded.
4.11 Seats
4.11.1 It is the guest’s responsibility to notify Spirit of a unique seating need. In accordance with the Contract of Carriage, Spirit may refuse to transport individuals who are unable or unwilling to comply with Spirit’s seating requirements.
4.11.2 Inflatable Seatbelts
Inflatable seatbelts are located on Spirit’s Airbus A319, A320, and A321 aircraft, which includes some Big Front Seats (For additional information related to inflatable seatbelt locations, click here.). Any guest who occupies a seat that is equipped with an inflatable seatbelt must have their seatbelt securely fastened (buckled low and tight) around the guest’s lap. Additionally, any guest traveling with a lap child or service animal that will sit in the guest’s lap shall not be permitted to occupy a seat equipped with an inflatable seatbelt. Car seats may not be accommodated in any seat equipped with an inflatable seatbelt. If a crew member determines that the guest cannot be safely accommodated as indicated above, he/she will attempt to reseat the guest and, if the original seat was purchased, the guest will be entitled to a refund for the optional service charge paid for such seat.
NOTE: Seatbelt extensions may not be used in any seat equipped with an
inflatable seatbelt.

5.1 Accompanied Children
Accompanied children are accepted for transportation on both domestic and international flights as follows:
5.1.1. Children under 15 years of age are accepted when accompanied on the same flight by another guest who is at least 15 years of age.
5.1.2. For travel to/from an international destination, all children, regardless of age, are required to have a valid passport and all foreign government documentation required for entry into and departure from the foreign country. These documents must be provided to Spirit at time of check in. It is the guest’s responsibility to verify foreign government documentation and entry requirements.
5.2 Unaccompanied Children
Unaccompanied children are accepted for transportation only on domestic flights as follows:
5.2.1. For travel wholly within the United States and its territories, children at least 5 years of age through 14 years of age are accepted for unaccompanied travel on Spirit flights that do not involve a scheduled change of aircraft (i.e., connecting flights). Unaccompanied children will not be accepted for travel on connecting flights or for travel on international flights.

5.2.2. Children less than 5 years of age will not be accepted for unaccompanied travel.
5.2.3. Spirit does not accept unaccompanied children for travel to/from international destinations.
5.2.4. Young adults aged 15 or older are permitted to travel alone domestically and internationally. For international travel, they are required to have a valid passport and any other documents required by the country they are traveling to.

5.2.5. A service charge will apply for each unaccompanied child per way of travel, which includes Federal Excise Tax required to be collected and remitted to the U.S. government.
5.2.6. All travel by unaccompanied children must be on flights on which the child holds a confirmed reservation.
5.2.7. Gate Passes and Handling Procedures for Unaccompanied Minors
5.2.7.1. All unaccompanied children must check in at the airport ticket counter with his/her parent or other responsible adult. Online checkin is not available for unaccompanied children.
Be sure to arrive to the airport early in order to complete the required documentation and to see the child safely through security screening (when permitted by airport) and identify the child to the gate agent for the boarding process.
5.2.7.2. The adult must remain at the airport until 15 minutes after the flight takes off.
5.2.7.3. Spirit must be provided the name and phone number of the parent or other responsible adult who will meet the child upon deplaning. The Guest Service Agent documents the information on an Unaccompanied Minor form, and places a copy of this information into a pouch. The pouch is then placed around the child’s neck to identify to the Flight Attendants that the child is traveling alone as an unaccompanied minor.
If the minor(s) is not met upon arrival by the individual responsible for meeting the minor(s), Spirit shall take whatever action deemed necessary by Spirit to ensure the minor(s) safe custody, including the return of the minor(s) to the airport of departure. The responsible adult who accompanied the minor(s) to the departure airport shall be responsible to reimburse Spirit for any and all expenses incurred by such actions.

5.2.7.4. The person dropping off the child must obtain a gate pass at the airport ticket counter (where permitted), then escort the child to the
gate. The person picking up the child must obtain a gate pass at the airport ticket counter (where permitted) to proceed to the gate for
the arrival of the flight. Spirit Airlines requires a photo Identification from the person(s) designated to meet the minor at the destination
and will not release the child to anyone else. Gate passes are only provided for an escort of an Unaccompanied Minor and for people who require assistance. Gate passes are not issued to anyone who requests a gate pass; there must be a valid reason. TSA requirements/security restrictions may vary based on the airport; thus, gate passes will be issued dependent on the current airport security/TSA guidelines.
5.3 Infants
5.3.1. Spirit encourages all adults traveling with children under the age of two (2) to purchase a seat for the child and secure the child in an FAA approved car seat. A paying adult guest may carry on his or her lap one infant over seven (7) days and under two (2) years of age (24 months). Once a child reaches their second birthday, they are no longer permitted to travel as a lap child. Spirit reserves the right to request documented proof of age for any traveler 2 years of age or younger. Please be prepared to provide documentation (birth certificate, passport, etc.) upon request.
5.3.2. If space is available after boarding, or if a separate reservation has been purchased for an infant over seven (7) days and under two (2) years of age, the infant may travel in a separate seat, provided that the infant must be securely placed in an FAA approved child restraint system (car seat) which meets the guidelines in section 5.4.
5.3.3. An infant, age seven (7) days or less or an infant requiring an incubator or other life-support systems shall not be accepted for travel on Spirit.
5.4 Car Seats
One (1) car seat will be accepted per child as checked baggage at no charge. These items are not considered part of the guest’s baggage allowance. Car seats may be carried on board the aircraft if a seat has been purchased for the child; one (1) child per car seat. To be accepted for use on board, car seats must be FAA approved and conform to the following guidelines:
5.4.1. Child Seats manufactured before 2/26/1985 must bear the label "This child restraint system conforms to all applicable federal motor vehicle safety
standards."
5.4.2. Child Seats manufactured after 2/25/1985 must bear the following two labels:
1) “This child restraint system conforms to all applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards” and,
2) “This restraint is certified for use in motor vehicles and aircraft.”
5.4.3. Child Seats bearing the approval of a foreign government or seats manufactured under the standards of the United Nations are also acceptable.
NOTE: Car seats may not occupy a seat in an exit row, the row in front of or behind an exit row, or any seat equipped with an inflatable seat belt.
Some FAA approved car seats may not always fit in certain Spirit Airlines aircraft seats (see minimum seating dimensions below). Depending on the type of aircraft, Spirit Airlines will either try to re-seat the guest or re-accommodate them. If the car seat is not able to be safely accommodated on the aircraft (e.g., car seat too large for the aircraft seat) and the guest has purchased an extra seat which cannot be utilized, a refund will be issued without penalty.
Spirit Airlines minimum seating dimensions can be found by visiting Spirit’s website at https://customersupport.spirit.com/hc/en-us/articles/202096526-Can-I-bring-my-childs-car-seat-and-or-stroller-onboard-.
NOTE: Car seats that exceed these dimensions may not fit or be safely accommodated on Spirit Airlines seats.
5.4.4. CARES Child Aviation Restraint Systems are acceptable for use on board as an alternative to a car seat. A CARES device is a child safety harness that has been approved by the FAA to be used for aviation use only.
5.5 Strollers
One (1) stroller (i.e., collapsible stroller, compact folding stroller, or folding wagon) will be accepted per child as checked baggage at no charge. These items are not considered part of the guest’s baggage allowance. If the one (1) stroller is a compact folding stroller that fits within the carry-on size dimensions in section 7.2.3, it may be accepted as a carry-on item granted the stroller is collapsed prior to boarding and not used onboard the aircraft. The stroller must be stowed in the overhead bin with the wheels up to prevent rolling.
6.1 General
The guest assumes full responsibility for the conduct of his or her accompanying pet or service animal. In the event Spirit incurs any loss, damage, delay, expense or legal liability of any kind in connection with the transport of such animal, the guest accepts full liability for any sums incurred.
6.2 Pet Animals in Cabin
Transportation of pet animals in cabin must meet the following conditions: On domestic flights (between two points within the United States or between the United States and its territories), for an extra charge, Spirit will only accept domesticated dogs, cats and in some cities rabbits and small household birds (including parrots, finches, canaries and parakeets). Birds that are not considered household birds and will not be accepted are farm poultry, waterfowl, game birds, birds of prey, or flightless birds. Guests traveling to/from U.S territories are responsible for checking with
the local government for specific laws or regulations regarding the acceptance of pets, including furnishing valid health and rabies vaccination certificates. Rabbits and birds are not accepted to and from cities in Puerto Rico and the U.S.V.I. For additional information please contact Spirit Guest Service at 855-728-3555.
Spirit Airlines does NOT accept pets in cabin for travel on international flights except in the case of service animals when permitted by the international destination and provided the guest complies with the requirements in section 6.3, including any specific requirement(s) of the international destination.
 
Spirit will accept pets for transportation in the guest cabin under the following
conditions:
1) The animal is harmless, not offensive, odorless, and requires no attention during transit.

2) The container must be inspected and approved by Spirit and able to fit underneath the seat in front of the guest traveling with the animal. (Maximum
container size is 18” x 14” x 9” (45.72 cm x 35.56 cm x 22.86 cm) in overall dimensions (L x W x H). The combined weight of the pet and carrier may not
exceed 40 pounds (18.14 kg). The pet must be able to stand and turn around in the container.
3) Only one (1) pet container, per guest with a confirmed reservation is permitted. A maximum of two (2) similar pets (e.g., two dogs, two cats) may travel in one (1) container provided the animals are small enough to be accommodated in one (1) pet carrier. The pet(s) may NOT be removed from the container during transit.
4) A maximum of six (6) pet containers are allowed per aircraft cabin.
5) In the event the animal becomes offensive or causes a disturbance during transit, the pet will be removed at the first en route stop.
6) Spirit assumes no responsibility for the impaired health or death of the animal.
7) There is a service charge for each pet carrier.
8) Unaccompanied Minors are not permitted to travel with pets.
9) A pet carrier containing a pet counts towards the guest’s carryon baggage allowance.
6.3 Service Animals
Spirit accepts for transportation, without charge, service dogs if they meet the requirements detailed in this section. No other type of animal will be accepted. A service animal is defined as a dog, regardless of breed or type, that is individually trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of a qualified individual with a disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other mental
disability.
Spirit reserves the right to ask if an animal is needed to provide assistance for a disability. Our team members are trained to ask certain questions to determine if an animal is a service animal.

NOTE: More than two (2) service animals per guest will not be accepted.
6.3.1. Service Animal Accommodation
The service dog must be accommodated in accordance with FAA safety regulations.

The service dog must be able to fit on your lap if the dog is smaller than a twoyear-old child, or fit within your foot space without blocking the egress of any other guest. If the dog is in a pet carrier, the pet carrier requirements in section 6.2 must be met. Spirit will make every reasonable effort to accommodate the guest in the event that the assistance of up to two (2) service dogs is required. If the dogs cannot be accommodated together at a single passenger seat or if a dog is too large to be safely accommodated, the guest may purchase an additional reservation(s), so that the dog(s) can be accommodated in accordance with FAA safety regulations, or the guest may be accommodated on a later flight where more seats are available.
6.3.2. Service Animal Air Transportation Form and Advance Notice Effective February 15, 2021, to travel with a service dog, you must submit the
U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) Service Animal Air Transportation Form attesting to the dog’s health, training, and behavior at least 48 hours
before your flight. Spirit’s Guest Care Department will notify you upon document approval. The form may be completed at the airport if you purchased your reservation within 48 hours of departure. Be sure to arrive early.
Instructions:
1. Download the Service Animal Air Transportation Form at www.spirit.com/serviceanimals.
2. Read and complete the form. NOTE: Two (2) forms are required if traveling with two (2) service dogs.
3. Submit the form(s) at http://www.spirit.com/submitserviceanimaldocat least 48 hours before the flight.
NOTE: Guest Care will notify you upon document approval.
4. Keep the form with you for the entire duration of your trip.
NOTE: The form must be submitted for each reservation as they are not kept on file.
6.3.3. International Travel
For international travel, depending on the international destination, specific documentation regarding the service dog may be required. Guests are
responsible for checking with the destination country for rules of acceptance of service animals as certain countries have restrictions and/or quarantine
guidelines. For additional information please contact Spirit Guest Care at 855- 728-3555.
6.3.4. Animal Behavior
The service dog must remain under the control of its handler. If at any time the dog shows signs that it will cause a disruption in the cabin, it has not been trained to function as a service animal in a public setting, or any signs of aggression, it will not be allowed to travel.
6.3.5. Emotional Support Animals and Service Animals in Training Spirit accepts emotional support animals and service animals in training for transportation as a pet in cabin for an extra charge. The animals must meet all the applicable pet in cabin conditions detailed in section 6.2.

6.3.6. Search and Rescue Animals
Animals trained to detect explosives or trained for search and rescue on official duty status may be transported. Spirit Airlines reserves the right to
request documentation.
6.4 Animals Checked as Baggage
Spirit Airlines does NOT accept animals as cargo or as checked baggage.





General
7.1.1. All baggage charges are non-refundable and may be paid in advance or at the
airport. Certain countries may require taxes be collected on baggage charges.
In such instances in addition to any other applicable charges set forth herein,
such taxes will be collected by Spirit and paid to the taxing authority or as
required under local regulations. In the event of a modification of an itinerary,
the guest may have to pay any applicable increase in baggage charges. See
section 3.3 for further information.
7.1.2. Baggage charges are applicable per item, per way of travel, with the exception
of stopovers and reservations purchased with multiple individual flight
segments rather than as a valid connecting flight within the Spirit reservation
system. In such instances, baggage charges are applicable per item, per
individual flight segment. It is the guest’s responsibility to claim their checked
item(s) at each point of stopover. The item(s) must then be re-checked at the
ticket counter prior to boarding the next flight segment on the reservation.
Spirit is not liable for baggage which is not transferred due to the purchase of a
non-valid connection.
7.2 Carry-On Baggage
7.2.1. One (1) carry-on bag is permitted in the aircraft cabin for a charge.
7.2.2. Spirit Airlines guests may bring one (1) carry-on bag plus one (1) personal item
(such as a purse, laptop computer, backpack, or duty free item) on board
providing they meet the size limitations listed in sections 7.2.3 and 7.2.4.
7.2.3. Carry-on baggage must fit into an overhead bin or under-seat space and not be
more than 22 inches by 18 inches by 10 inches (56 cm x 46 cm x 25 cm)
including handles and wheels. Pieces exceeding these dimensions must become
checked baggage.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 19
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.2.4. Personal items may not exceed the dimensions of 18 inches by 14 inches by 8
inches (45 cm x 35 cm x 20 cm) including handles and wheels. Any item that
exceeds these dimensions is no longer considered a personal item and a carryon or checked bag charge will apply.
7.2.5. The following items do not count towards a guest’s carry-on allowance.
Although these articles are exempt from carry-on limitations, they must be
properly stowed for ground movement, takeoff and landing.
These exempt articles include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
a) Assist pet carrier when traveling with assist/service animal
b) Camera
c) Crutches/Canes/Braces or other prosthetic device upon which the guest is
dependent
d) Guest assistive devices & service animals
e) Food for consumption on board the flight
f) Infant bag, when traveling with the infant
g) Infant/Child Car Seats, when the child is carried in the seat
h) One Duty Free box or bag containing Duty Free items
i) Outer garments (coats/hats/wraps)
j) Reading material for the flight
k) One collapsible stroller, compact folding stroller, or folding wagon, when
the child is traveling. See section 5.5 for further information.
l) Umbrella
7.2.6. Spirit may require that a carry-on be checked as baggage if the item cannot be
safely stowed or if it doesn’t comply with Spirit’s baggage policies set forth
herein. Excess items will be charged according to checked baggage charges.
7.2.7. Seat Baggage
An item of baggage may occupy a seat, subject to applicable regulations,
provided the guest accompanies the property, the item meets specified
dimensions, the item can be properly secured by the seatbelt, reservations are
made in advance, and the applicable fare is paid. Items accepted as seat
baggage cannot block placards or signs.
Animals are NOT accepted as seat baggage.
7.3 Checked Baggage
7.3.1. Charges apply for all checked baggage. Spirit Airlines allows up to five checked
bags/items per paying guest (restrictions may apply to certain destinations and
during specific times of the year).
7.3.2. Checked Baggage Size and Weight Restrictions:
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 20
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.3.2.1. Any checked baggage that exceeds the standard size and weight limit
including handles and wheels is subject to excess baggage charges in
addition to the standard checked baggage charge (a standard checked
bag is defined as a bag not exceeding 62 linear inches in overall
dimensions (Length + Width + Height) and 40 pounds in weight).
7.3.2.2. Spirit Airlines will not accept baggage that weighs more than 100
pounds with the exception of mobility aid devices and musical
instruments (For more information on musical instruments see the
Special Items chart in section 7.5).
7.3.2.3. With the exception of certain items, Spirit Airlines will not accept
baggage that measures more than 80 linear inches in overall
dimensions (Length + Width + Height).
7.3.2.4. From December 1st
to January 10th, the following restrictions apply to
guests flying to and from international destinations (except Lima, Peru
see section 7.3.2.5, and Colombia and Ecuador see section 7.3.2.6).
Guests may check one (1) item and may purchase additional checked
items on a first-come first-serve basis based on inventory.
Overweight baggage is subject to overweight baggage charges.
Oversized items up to 80 linear inches in overall dimensions (203 cm)
are permitted and are subject to oversized baggage charges.
7.3.2.5. When traveling to and from Lima, Peru, guests may check one (1) item
and may purchase additional checked items on a first-come first-serve
basis based on inventory. Overweight baggage is subject to
overweight baggage charges. With the exception of Bicycles, Ski
Equipment, Surfboards, and Javelin/Vaulting Pole Equipment as stated
in section 7.5, items measuring more than 80 linear inches in overall
dimensions will not be accepted. From December 1st to January 10th
,
any item (including those listed above) will not be accepted if the
item(s) exceeds 80 linear inches.
7.3.2.6. When traveling to and from Colombia and Ecuador, guests may check
one (1) item and may purchase additional checked items on a firstcome first-serve basis based on inventory. Checked items are subject
to overweight and oversized charges.
7.3.3. Spirit will check baggage for a guest with a valid reservation subject to the
following conditions:
7.3.3.1 Baggage must be checked at the airport in advance of flight
departures as described in section 2.3.3.
7.3.3.2 Name identification is required on the outside of all baggage. Spirit
recommends placing identification, including phone number, on the
inside as well.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 21
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.3.4 Baggage will only be checked to:
7.3.4.1 To the guest’s final destination or to the guest’s next airport of
stopover.
7.3.4.2 Spirit will refuse to transport or will remove at any airport, baggage
that a guest refuses to submit for inspection. Spirit may refuse to
transport a guest's baggage on any flight other than the flight carrying
the guest.
7.3.5 Delayed, Damaged and Lost Baggage
In the event your baggage does not arrive at your destination with you, please
file a report to immediately initiate a search for the mishandled piece(s). If a
bag/item is delayed, lost, damaged or pilfered, a Spirit Airlines representative at
the airport must be notified and a report must be filed within four (4) hours of
arrival of the flight on which the guest traveled (unless applicable law or treaty
provides for a longer period of time).
For international travel, in the case of baggage damage, the guest entitled to
delivery must notify Spirit as soon as possible after discovery of the damage,
and no later than seven (7) days from receipt of checked baggage. In the case of
delay or loss, Spirit must be notified no later than twenty-one (21) days from the
date on which the baggage should have been placed at the guest’s disposal.
Within four (4) hours of arrival, many U.S. domestic locations offer self-service
mishandled baggage reporting. Information about filing a report via this selfbe found in the baggage claim area at each of these locations.
NOTE: Regardless of location, guests traveling on reservations associated with a
limited liability release must report mishandled baggage directly to a Guest
Service Agent at the airport.
Reasonable efforts will be made to deliver delayed baggage within 24 hours of
flight arrival. Once your belongings are located, they will be returned to you as
quickly as possible. Baggage delayed due to guest's late check-in, change in
destination after check-in or a guest traveling standby, will be delivered at the
guest's expense.
7.3.6 Delayed Baggage - Reimbursable Expenses
Spirit Airlines allows reasonable interim expenses for guests whose bags have
been delayed. Interim expenses incurred are limited to reasonable personal
items, such as clothing and toiletries purchased as a result of the delay. All
original receipts must be provided for reimbursement; copies will not be
accepted. Spirit Airlines reserves the right to request that items purchased as a
result of a delayed bag be returned prior to the issuance of compensation. Items
purchased are intended to replace items in a delayed bag. Any reimbursement is
considered an advance and will be deducted from a final settlement in the
unlikely event the bag is deemed lost.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 22
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.3.7 Delayed Baggage – In Excess of Five (5) Days
If your baggage has not been located and returned within five (5) days, a claim
should be filed with Central Baggage. To file a claim, you will need to complete
the online claim form. The online claim form is a different form from the
delayed baggage report that is filed at the airport. Additional information and
details that you provide on this form will assist Central Baggage with advanced
tracing and help improve the likelihood of success in locating your baggage. For
further details on filing a claim, see section 7.3.9.
7.3.8 Damaged Baggage
If your bag is damaged a report must be completed within the required time
limit set forth in section 7.3.5.
Once a report is completed, a claim should be filed with Central Baggage. To file
a claim, you will need to complete the online claim form. For further details on
filing a claim, see section 7.3.9.
7.3.9 Filing A Baggage Claim
All claims for compensation (e.g., delay, loss, damage and pilferage) are filed at
www.spirit.com/bagclaim and must include a completed online claim form
inclusive of all the required documents.
Verifiable proof of purchase (receipts) is required for all claimed items with a
declared value of $50.00 and higher. For interim expenses, verifiable proof of
purchase of reasonably priced items is required for all items.
NOTE: Spirit Airlines reserves the right to request original documents of interim
purchases to be mailed.
Actual value for reimbursement of all mishandled baggage is determined by the
original purchase price, less reasonable depreciation for prior usage (not
applicable to assistive devices).
The claim and all the required documents must be received within thirty (30)
days of the date of arrival unless applicable law or treaty provides for a longer
period of time.
7.4 Fragile and Perishable Items
Fragile/Perishable items are only accepted if a Spirit employee is made aware of such
item, and a release is signed that indemnifies Spirit against liability for damage to, loss
or spoilage of, or delay in delivery resulting in damage to, loss or spoilage of such items.
Failure to alert Spirit of fragile/perishable items in baggage may result in denial of loss
or damage claims.
The following are some examples of items that are fragile or perishable, or otherwise
unsuitable as checked baggage, and are subject to the conditions of acceptance set
forth above: bicycles, blueprints, cameras, ceramics, china, crystal, dolls, figurines, flash
equipment, flowers, glass or glass containers, lenses, maps, mirrors, models, paintings,
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 23
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
perfumes, liquids, bottles, musical instruments and equipment, kites, surfboards,
seafood, plants, sculptures, strollers, trophies, vases, folding wagons and wines.
Perishable items include, without limitation, items such as fruit, vegetables, meats, fish,
poultry, bakery products and other forms of food, flowers and floral displays and plants
and similar articles requiring maintenance at specific temperatures such as medicine
must meet local agricultural guidelines.
Spirit will refuse to accept property for transportation that is not suitably packaged to
withstand ordinary handling, the size, weight or character of which makes it unsuitable
for transportation, or that cannot be accommodated without harming or annoying
guests. Fragile and perishable items will be accepted if the tube, container or case is
designed for shipping such items, and it is packed in leak-proof containers or in airline
approved protective material.
NOTE: Plastic bags or foam containers are not acceptable for frozen food or other items
that may leak during transit.
7.5 Conditions for Acceptance of Special Items
The following items may be accepted as carry-on and/or checked baggage with
restrictions. Standard baggage charges apply to ALL checked items and carry-on items
(that exceed personal item dimensions), except where a special charge is indicated
below. Size and weight charges may also apply, unless the overweight or oversized
charge is specifically waived as stated below. To be accepted as carry-on baggage, the
item must be within the size limits listed in section 7.2. Checked baggage may require a
limited liability release tag, which can be obtained at the Spirit Airline's airport ticket
counter.
For safety and security reasons, all items must be securely packed inside a bag or
case/container. Unsecured items may not be attached to a bag. Items that are packed
separately will be considered two separate items and are subject to separate service
charges.
SPIRIT DOES NOT PROVIDE SHIPPING BOXES.
NOTE: The following list is NOT all inclusive.
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Alcohol
A maximum of 5 Liters or 1.3 gallons of liquor products
containing more than 24% and no more than 70% alcohol by
volume are allowed to be carried per guest in checked
baggage. Containers must be unopened and packaged so as
not to break or leak. One duty free box or bag containing
duty free items is permitted in addition to the standard
carry-on baggage allowance.
* Liquor products over 70% alcohol by volume (over 140
proof) will NOT be accepted.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 24
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Antlers
Dimension (L + W + H) must not exceed 120 linear inches.
Head/skull must be completely clean and free of residue.
Points must be covered and protected.
No Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Archery
Equipment
Archery equipment must be packed in a case or in a
container of sufficient strength to protect the bows and
quiver with arrows from accidental damage.
No Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Artistic Items
Items include but are not limited to: oversized pictures,
drawings, statues, models, souvenirs, art objects, curios and
similar articles.
Yes Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Balls/ Balloons
Items include but are not limited to: Footballs, soccer balls,
basketballs, volleyballs. Items may need to be slightly
deflated for safe transport. Helium balloons may be
transported if completely deflated.
Yes Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Baseball
Equipment
* While baseball equipment will be accepted, baseball bats
will not be accepted as carry-on baggage.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Bicycles
Bicycles are included as part of the guest’s standard
baggage allowance and will be accepted for a special charge
per direction. Oversize limits and charges are waived for
bicycles. Overweight charges are waived for bicycles.
Bicycle equipment may consist of (1) non-motorized touring
or racing bicycle with a single seat. Bicycles should be
prepared for transportation by the guest. Bicycle must be
placed in a cardboard or hard cased bike container. Bicycle
tires must be deflated. Bicycles not enclosed will NOT be
accepted.
* Spirit reserves the right to refuse transportation of these
items due to safety and/or operational limitations.
No Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Body boards,
Boogie boards,
Kiteboards, and
Wakeboards,
One item includes one board with any keels or fins removed
and placed in checked baggage to prevent damage.
One item will count as a checked bag provided it does not
exceed 62 linear inches. Overweight charges are applicable.
No Yes Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 25
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Items that exceed 62 linear inches will be classified as
surfing equipment and will have a special charge per
direction. See Surfing Equipment for more details.
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Bowling
Equipment
* To be stowed onboard, bowling bags must fit under the
seat in front of you, and contain only one (1) bowling ball.
Bowling balls may not be stowed in the overhead bins.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Boxes and
Plastic
Containers
Boxes may be opened and inspected upon check-in. Boxes
must meet the same restrictions contained in our baggage
acceptance policy. Boxes must have the strength to hold the
contents. Spirit is not responsible for packaging/repackaging any boxes.
* Boxes may be transported as checked baggage to all
locations except when embargos are in place. Boxes
containing or having contained hazardous material are
NOT accepted.
Yes Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Camping Gear
Items include but are not limited to: Backpacks, sleeping
bags, and knapsacks
* Any dangerous goods such as flares, camping stove
fuel, etc. are NOT accepted.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Ceramics/
Chinaware/
Glass
Items include but are not limited to: Pots, statues, bowls,
dishes, glasses or other containers made of clay hardened
by heat, earthenware, crockery, and containers or
ornaments made of porcelain or baked clay, and items
made of or containing glass and similar articles.
* To be accepted as checked baggage, these items must be
packed properly.
Yes Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Dry Alkaline
(e.g., AA, D, 9V)
and Dry
Rechargeable
(e.g., NiMH
NiCAD)
Batteries
* Each spare lithium battery must be individually protected
so as to prevent short circuits (e.g., by placement in
original retail packaging, by otherwise insulating terminals
by taping over exposed terminals, or placing each battery
in a separate plastic bag or protective pouch).
 Limits:
A maximum of 20 batteries and battery powered devices
per passenger is considered for personal use. More than
20 batteries or battery-powered devices will not be
accepted.
Yes - with
exceptions*
Yes - with
exceptions* No
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 26
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Dry Ice
Spirit accepts solid dry ice in quantities not exceeding 5.5
lbs. in carry-on or checked baggage. The following
conditions apply:
• The dry ice must be used as a refrigerant for the
contents of the container.
• The container must be ventilated to allow for the
venting of carbon dioxide gas.
• Additionally, as checked baggage, the package must:
o Be clearly marked “DRY ICE” or “CARBON DIOXIDE
SOLID”
o Be marked with the net weight of the dry ice or an
indication that the net weight of the dry ice is 5.5
pounds (2.5 kg.) or less.
Yes Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Electric
Chainsaws
Electric chainsaws must be packaged in original container or
hard sided container for safe transport.
Spirit does NOT permit other types of powered chain saws,
such as fuel or gas powered, on any flight due to the DOT’s
requirements for transporting hazardous materials.
No Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Electric
Skateboards &
Hover Boards
Electric skateboards and hover boards are NOT allowed for
transport. No No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Electronic
Cigarettes
(e-cigarettes)
* E-cigarettes and other battery-powered smoking devices
are NOT allowed to be used onboard any Spirit Airlines
aircraft. Some countries (e.g. Dominican Republic)
prohibit the carriage of these devices in carry-on baggage,
checked baggage, and/or on one’s person, in which case
Spirit will enforce such prohibition(s).
Yes – with
exceptions* No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Electronics
Items include but are not limited to: All video and audio
devices, televisions, radios, computers, stereo equipment,
VCR players, VCR recorders and their accessories,
typewriters, hair dryers, sewing machines, specialized
equipment, and similar articles.
Yes Yes Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 27
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Firearms &
Ammunitions
Firearms
Firearms are accepted provided that all of the following
provisions are met:
1. The guest checking the firearm is at least 18 years of
age.
2. The guest is not traveling to an international
destination.
3. The guest declares the firearm to be unloaded and
signs a Firearms Declaration tag.
NOTE: A guest checking multiple firearms must
complete a Firearms Declaration tag for each
firearm checked.
4. The firearm is in a hard-sided container which is locked,
and only the guest retains the key or combination.
5. A signed Firearms Declaration tag(s) must be placed as
follows:
• If the hard-sided locked container is inside another
piece of luggage, the tag shall be placed inside the
luggage next to the locked container.
• If the firearm is a rifle or shotgun, the tag shall be
placed inside the locked hard-sided rifle or shotgun
case.
• If the firearm is contained in a locked hard-sided
suitcase, the tag shall be placed inside the suitcase
next to the firearm.
Ammunitions
Small arms ammunition (up to 19.1 mm for rifle and pistol
cartridges, any size shotgun shells) for personal use is
accepted provided that all of the following provisions are
met:
1. The guest is not traveling on an international flight, and
is not under the age of eighteen.
2. Amount of ammunition must not exceed eleven pounds
(11 lb.) per guest.
3. Ammunition must be securely packed in boxes or other
packaging specifically designed to carry small amounts
of ammunition. Ammunition clips and magazines must
also be securely boxed.
4. Firearms and properly packaged ammunition may be
carried in the same hard-sided container. Or, the
ammunition may be carried in a separate piece of
checked baggage.
No Yes No
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 28
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Fishing
Equipment
Fishing rods/poles must be secured in a case or container.
Guests may pack reels or fragile tackle that do not pose a
security threat in their carry-on baggage.
* Tackle Equipment such as sharp fishing may be considered
dangerous, such as large fish hooks, should be sheathed,
securely wrapped, and will be accepted
as checked baggage only.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Golf Equipment
Golf bags containing golf clubs are exempt from oversize
charges; however, overweight charges are applicable.
Golf equipment should be enclosed with a cover to prevent
loss of contents. Hard sided carriers are recommended.
*Golf Clubs will not be accepted as carry-on baggage.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Yes
(soft-sided golf
bags only)
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Hockey
Equipment
One item of hockey equipment includes two (2) hockey
sticks (taped together) and one bag containing only hockey
equipment. Bags containing hockey sticks are exempt from
oversize charges; however, overweight charges are
applicable.
*Hockey sticks will not be accepted as carry-on baggage.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Household
Articles
Lamps, lamp shades, furniture and items of similar nature
are acceptable if properly packaged. Yes Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Ice
Spirit does not accept any form of loose or cubed ice for
transport to be packed in coolers, lunch bags, etc.
* Frozen water in bottles or ice packs can be used as a
refrigerant.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Incubators Incubators are NOT allowed for transport. No No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Javelin/
Vaulting Pole
Equipment
Vaulting poles and javelins are exempt from size limits;
however, oversize charges apply if the item is greater than
62 linear inches. Overweight charges are applicable.
* Spirit reserves the right to refuse transportation of these
items due to safety and/or operational limitations.
No Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 29
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Kayak, Boat,
Canoes
Kayaks, Boats, and Canoes are NOT allowed for transport. No No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Lacrosse
Equipment
One item of lacrosse equipment includes two (2) lacrosse
sticks (taped together) and one bag containing only lacrosse
equipment. Bags containing lacrosse sticks are exempt from
oversize charges; however, overweight charges are
applicable.
* Lacrosse sticks will not be accepted as carry-on baggage.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Lithium Ion
Batteries for
Mobility
Assistive
Devices
* A maximum of one spare battery not exceeding 300 watt
hours (Wh), or two spares batteries not exceeding 160
Wh each may be carried in carry-on baggage. Spare
batteries are NOT accepted as checked baggage.
Rechargeable lithium ion batteries without a protective
housing must be removed from the mobility assistive
device and battery terminals protected from short circuit.
The battery is limited in size to no more than 300 Wh, and
may be carried in carry-on baggage only. The guest must
advise Spirit of the battery location.
Rechargeable lithium ion batteries with a protective
housing may remain installed and be checked with the
mobility assistive device only if it is securely attached to
the device, and the terminals protected from short circuit.
The battery cables may remain connected only if the
device is protected from accidental activation. Lithium ion
batteries with a protective housing are not limited in Wh
when checked with the assistive device.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* N/A
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 30
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Lithium Ion
Batteries for
Portable
Electronic
Devices
* Each installed or spare lithium battery must not exceed
100 Watt-hours (Wh). Additionally, each installed or spare
lithium battery must be of a type proven to meet the
requirements of each test in the UN Manual of Tests and
Criteria, Part III, Sub-section 38.3.
Spare Batteries
Spare lithium batteries are accepted in carry-on baggage
ONLY. In carry-on baggage, a reasonable number of
individually protected lithium ion batteries (for personal
use only) each not exceeding 100 Wh, may be carried per
person. Each spare lithium battery must be individually
protected so as to prevent short circuits (e.g., by
placement in original retail packaging, by otherwise
insulating terminals by taping over exposed terminals, or
placing each battery in a separate plastic bag or protective
pouch).
Limits:
A maximum of 20 batteries and battery powered devices
per passenger is considered for personal use. More than
20 batteries or battery-powered devices will not be
accepted.
Installed
and Spares
Yes – with
exceptions*
Installed
Yes - with
exceptions*
Spares
No
No
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Lithium Metal
Batteries for
Portable
Electronic
Devices
* The lithium content for lithium metal (non-rechargeable)
batteries may not exceed 2 grams per battery.
Additionally, each installed or spare lithium battery must
be of a type proven to meet the requirements of each test
in the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria, Part III, Subsection 38.3.
Spare Batteries
Spare lithium batteries are accepted in carry-on baggage
ONLY. Spare batteries must be protected from damage
and short circuit.
Limits:
A maximum of 20 batteries and battery powered devices
per passenger is considered for personal use. More than
20 batteries or battery-powered devices will not be
accepted.
Installed
and Spares
Yes – with
exceptions*
Installed
Yes - with
exceptions*
Spares
No
No
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Martial Arts
Items include but are not limited to: Billy clubs, blackjacks,
brass knuckles, kubaton, martial arts weapons, night sticks,
nunchaku, stun guns, shocking devices and throwing stars.
No Yes Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 31
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Medical
Portable
Electronic
Devices
(M-PED)
Medical Portable Electronic Devices (e.g., External
Defibrillator Life Vests) may be transported at no charge
when carried by itself or with other assistive devices,
medications and/or medical supplies. These devices do not
count towards the guest’s baggage allowance.
* Please see Medical Certificates for further information
regarding when Medical Certificates may be required. For
battery requirements see Lithium Ion Batteries for
Portable Electronic Devices or Lithium Metal Batteries for
Portable Electronic Devices as applicable.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Musical
Instruments
Musical Instruments are included as part of the guest’s
standard baggage. Musical instruments are considered a
fragile item. Fragile items will be accepted as checked
baggage if they are appropriately packaged in a
container/case designed for shipping such items. Music
instruments that exceed 150 linear inches or 165 lbs. will
not be accepted.
* Small musical instruments (e.g. violins, flutes, guitars, etc.)
are permitted as carry-on baggage as long as the
instrument can be safely stowed in the overhead bin or
under the guest’s seat. Stowage in the overhead bins is
available on a first-come, first-serve basis.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Musical
Instruments as
Seat Baggage
(Cargo in the
Cabin)
Spirit Airlines allows the carriage of musical instruments in
the cabin as seat baggage (cargo in the cabin) if the
instrument is too large to be stowed safely in a suitable
baggage compartment in the aircraft cabin or under a
passenger seat. The guest must purchase an additional seat
and the cost is the applicable fare for the portions of the
flight that the extra seat is requested plus sales tax. No
additional fees will be charged. The instrument must be
appropriately packaged in a container/case in a manner to
avoid possible injury to guests and guest compartment
occupants. The instrument may not impose any load on
seats or the floor structure that exceeds the load limitation
for those components. The item must be properly secured
by the aircraft’s seatbelt or other tie down having enough
strength to eliminate the possibility of shifting under all
normally anticipated flight and ground conditions. The
instrument cannot block any guest’s view of the “SEAT
BELT” sign, “NO SMOKING” sign or required “EXIT” sign.
The instrument cannot occupy an emergency exit seat or
impede access to the cabin aisle. The instrument may
occupy a middle seat provided the adjacent window seat
remains unoccupied.
Yes N/A N/A
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 32
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Nebulizers,
Respirators and
Ventilators
These devices may be transported at no charge when
carried by itself or with other assistive devices, medications
and/or medical supplies. These devices do not count
towards the guest’s baggage allowance. Such devices with
labels showing that they meet FAA safety requirements can
be used during flight.
Yes Yes No
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Non-Spillable
Wet Batteries
for Portable
Electronic
Devices
* For a non-spillable battery, each battery must not exceed
a voltage greater than 12 volts and a watt-hour rating of
not more than 100 Wh. Limits: No more than two
individually protected spare batteries may be carried.
To be accepted as checked baggage, the battery terminals
must be protected from damage and short circuit and be
contained within strong packaging. The packaging must be
marked “non-spillable”.
Installed
and Spares
Yes – with
exceptions*
Installed
and Spares
Yes – with
exceptions*
No
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Oxygen
Contained oxygen and other gasses, e.g., in cylinders,
canisters are NOT permitted for carriage on Spirit Airlines.
Spirit does NOT offer oxygen onboard its aircraft.
No No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Paintball
Equipment
Paintball guns are not considered a firearm and may be
transported in unlocked, soft or hard-sided baggage.
Compressed gas cylinders are NOT permitted for carriage on
Spirit Airlines.
No Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Parachute
Equipment
* Sporting parachutes are acceptable provided the
parachute and its accessories do not include any items
that are prohibited from being carried, e.g., compressed
gas cylinders, flares or other hazardous materials.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Photographic
Equipment
Items include but are not limited to: All cameras, VCR
recorders/ players, photoflash equipment, photometers,
spectroscopes, photo tubes, and/or other similar devices
using sensitive tubes or plates and film (still or movie),
exposed or unexposed, as well as all related attachments or
accessories.
* Chemicals used for film development are NOT accepted
for transport.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 33
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Portable
Dialysis
Machines
Portable dialysis machines may be transported at no charge
when carried by itself or with other assistive devices,
medications and/or medical supplies. These devices do not
count towards the guest’s baggage allowance.
* These devices are NOT permitted for use on Spirit’s
aircraft.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes No
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Portable
Oxygen
Concentrators
Portable Oxygen Concentrators (POC) are battery-powered
concentrators that provide the user with a pulse flow of
concentrated oxygen, without storing Oxygen. These items
may be transported at no charge when carried by itself or
with other assistive devices, medications and/or medical
supplies. These devices do not count towards the guest’s
baggage allowance.
To be used onboard, a POC must be on the FAA approved
list or it must bear a permanent label on the exterior of the
device containing the following certification statement in
red lettering: “The manufacturer of this POC has determined
this device conforms to all applicable FAA acceptance
criteria for POC carriage and use on board aircraft.” The
labeling requirement does not apply to Portable Oxygen
Concentrators on the FAA approved list.
The FAA approved list is as follows:
• Airsep Focus
• AirSep FreeStyle
• AirSep FreeStyle 5
• AirSep LifeStyle
• Delphi RS-00400
• DeVilbiss Healthcare iGo
• Inogen One
• Inogen One G2
• Inogen One G3
• Inova Labs LifeChoice
• Inova Labs LifeChoice Activox
• International Biophysics LifeChoice
• Invacare Solo2
• Invacare XP02
• Oxlife Independence Oxygen Concentrator
• Oxus Inc. RS-00400
• Precision Medical EasyPulse
• Respironics EverGo
• Respironics Simply Go
• SeQual Eclipse
• SeQual eQuinox Oxygen System (model 4000)
• SeQual Oxywell Oxygen System (model 4000)
• SeQual SAROS
• VBox Trooper Oxygen Concentrator
Yes Yes No
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 34
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Precision
Instruments
Items include but are not limited to: Microscopes,
oscilloscopes, meters, counters, polygraphs, electrographs,
medical equipment and similar articles.
* A limited liability release form is not required for medical
equipment.
Yes Yes Yes – with
exceptions*
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Ski (Water or
Snow) and
Snowboard
Equipment
One item of equipment will count as a checked bag.
One item of ski equipment is considered:
• One pair of skis, with one pair of ski poles, and one pair
of ski boots; or
• One snowboard and one pair snowboard boots.
Bags containing skis or snowboards are exempt from
oversize limits; however, oversize charges apply if the bag is
greater than 62 linear inches. Overweight charges are
applicable.
Note: If boots are packed separately from ski/snowboard
equipment, they must be in a ski/snowboard boot bag to be
considered part of the one piece of checked baggage.
No Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Scuba Diving
Equipment
Compressed gas cylinders (scuba tanks), full or empty, will
NOT be accepted for transport.
* Sharp objects, such as unloaded spear guns, knives and
tools, must be packed in checked baggage only, and must
be sheathed or securely wrapped.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Skateboards
Non-motorized/Non-battery operated skateboards will be
accepted.
*To be accepted as carry-on baggage, the skateboard must
be within Spirit’s carry-on size and must be stowed with the
wheels up, preferably under the seat. If placed in the
overhead bin, the skateboard must be wheels up and
stowed in a way to prevent rolling out of the bin when it is
reopened.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Smart Bags /
Batterypowered
Baggage
Battery-powered baggage and smart bags (e.g., baggage
with built in batteries) are NOT allowed for transport. No No N/A
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 35
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Surfing
Equipment
Surfboards are included as part of the guest’s standard
baggage allowance and will be accepted for a special charge
per direction. One bag containing up to two surfboards will
be accepted.
Oversize limits and charges are waived for surfing
equipment. Overweight charges are waived for surfing
equipment. Additional items packed inside a surfboard case
are not considered part of the surfboard equipment and
additional charges will apply.
* Spirit reserves the right to refuse transportation of these
items due to safety and/or operational limitations.
No Yes – with
exceptions* Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Tennis
Equipment
Yes Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Tools/Power
Tools
Items include but are not limited to: Axes, hatchets, cattle
prods, crowbars, hammers, drills, table saws, screwdrivers,
wrenches, and pliers.
No Yes Yes
Item
Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Wheelchairs
In addition to the standard baggage allowance and at no
charge, Spirit Airlines will accept wheelchairs and other
mobility assistive devices (manual and electric/battery
operated) as checked baggage on the same flight as the
guest who uses the device, unless the guest requests
stowage of his or her manual folding and collapsible
wheelchair within the aircraft cabin.
At the time of check-in, electric-powered wheelchairs must
have cables disconnected and terminals protected against
electrical shortages. Spirit strongly recommends that guests
requiring this service check-in at least 90 minutes before
departure.
Guests must check-in at the departure gate at least 45
minutes prior to the (original) scheduled flight departure
time. The battery must be disconnected and terminals
protected against electrical shorting and must be contained
in a leak proof box fastened securely to the wheelchair. It
may be necessary to remove the battery if the wheelchair
cannot be loaded, stowed, and unloaded in an upright
manner.
* Once one guest’s manual folding and collapsible
wheelchair has been accepted for accommodation in the
passenger cabin, Spirit Airlines will accept one (1)
additional manual folding and collapsible wheelchair as
long as no other guests are displaced.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes No
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 36
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Windsurfing
Equipment
Windsurfing equipment is NOT accepted for transport. No No N/A
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Wood Carvings
* Guests transporting wood carvings to/from Jamaica are
required to place the item(s) in checked baggage per
Jamaican government regulations.
Yes – with
exceptions* Yes Yes
Item Description Carry-on? Checked? Requires Limited
Liability Release
Urns,
Human/Animal
Remains &
Organs
Spirit will NOT accept human or animal remains and/or
organs, with the exception of cremated human or animal
remains being transported as follows:
*Domestic Travel
To be transported as carry-on baggage, the crematory
container must undergo successful X-ray screening by TSA.
If a container is made of a material that prevents screeners
from clearly seeing what is inside, the container will not be
allowed through the checkpoint. Per TSA guidance, out of
respect to the deceased and their family and friends, under
no circumstances will a TSA officer open the container
even if the guest requests this be done.
NOTE: Documentation from the funeral home is not
sufficient to carry a crematory container through security
and onto a plane without screening.
To be transported as checked baggage, the crematory
container must be successfully screened during the
checked baggage screening process. The TSA will screen
the container for explosive materials/devices using a
variety of techniques; if cleared, it will be permitted as
checked baggage only.
The TSA recommends that guests transport remains in
temporary or permanent containers constructed of lightweight materials such as plastic or wood that can be
successfully x-rayed.
International Travel
Countries have different regulations and documentation
requirements for receiving cremated remains. It is the
guest’s responsibility to obtain importation permission
from the embassy (or appropriate government office) of
the country to which they are traveling.
Although the guest can contact the embassy or appropriate
government office to complete the necessary legal
paperwork, Spirit recommends that they acquire the
services of a funeral director to assist with the necessary
arrangements.
Yes – with
exceptions*
Yes – with
exceptions* No
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 37
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.6 Restricted Articles
The following list is classified as hazardous and may not be carried in baggage. The list is
not all-inclusive and Spirit may reject any substance it deems to be a threat to safety.
7.6.1. Liquor products over 140 proof.
7.6.2. Gasoline-powered tools.
7.6.3. Compressed gases.
7.6.4. Corrosives (such as acids and wet batteries).
7.6.5. Explosives (such as dynamite, but also including fireworks).
7.6.6. Flammables (such as matches and lighter fuels).
7.6.7. Poisons.
7.6.8. Magnetic and radioactive materials and all other items by government
regulations.
7.6.9. Additional prohibited or restricted hazardous or dangerous goods and materials
can be found in the following resources in effect at the time of travel:
a) DOT hazardous materials regulations (49CFR 171-177)
b) IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations
c) TSA Permitted and Prohibited Items
7.7 Limitations of Liability
Except to the extent inconsistent with applicable laws, Spirit Airlines will not accept
liability for the following:
a) Damage caused to baggage as a result of normal wear and tear during the course of
any of the operations of carriage. Normal wear and tear includes, but is not limited
to, minor cuts, scratches, scuffs, dents, punctures, marks and soiling that do not
impact the functionality of such baggage.
b) Loss of or damage to:
a. Protruding parts such as wheels, feet, external pockets, pull and extending
handles, hanger hooks, external locks, pull straps and security straps if this loss
or damage occurred as a result of normal wear and tear.
b. Articles due to a manufacturer’s defect or due to overpacked baggage, or for
the destruction, loss or damage that results from an inherent defect, quality, or
vice of the baggage.
c. Articles which are strapped, fastened or otherwise secured to other Checked
Baggage which are not independently tagged and/or packaged (e.g., sleeping
bags, umbrellas).
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 38
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
d. Unchecked baggage (baggage that is in the custody of the guest and includes
carry-on baggage) unless such damage is caused by our negligence, which
excludes damage resulting from turbulence or shifting of items during flight.
c) Loss, damage, or delay as the result of actions taken by the TSA, Customs, or other
governmental agencies
d) Damage caused by a passenger’s property, whether such damage is to the
passenger’s own property or to other’s property.
e) Damage resulting from liquids on or in baggage, including from weather (e.g., rain,
snow).
f) Claims of missing or damaged articles if a passenger’s checked baggage is not
damaged, delayed, or lost.
g) Claims of damage of the inside contents of a hard-sided case if the outside of the
case is not damaged.
h) Claims of damage to or missing articles from car seats, strollers, and folding wagons
when carried as checked baggage.
i) Interim expenses incurred by a guest with delayed baggage if the guest fails to meet
the check-in time requirements outlined in section 2.3.3.
7.7.1. Domestic Baggage – Limitation of Liability
7.7.1.1. Spirit assumes no responsibility or liability for the following items in or
as checked or carry-on baggage:
• Antiques,
• Artifacts,
• Art supplies,
• Backpacks or knapsacks not designed for travel (e.g., made from
plastic, vinyl, or other easily torn material, with aluminum frames
or other easily bent material, with protruding straps or buckles.)
• Blueprints, maps, historical documents
• Books,
• Business documents,
• CD/DVDs
• Business equipment and business samples
• China, glass, ceramics, pottery, and other related items.
• Collectibles,
• Commercial items,
• Computer hardware and software, including laptops, and
accessories,
• Cosmetics,
• Drugs prohibited by federal and/or state law,
• E-cigarettes and other battery-powered smoking devices,
• Electronic equipment and accessories including cell phones, ereaders, electronic games, and other related items.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 39
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
• Eyeglasses, binoculars, sunglasses, (prescription or nonprescription), contact lenses, and all other eyewear and
eye/vision devices.
• Furs and fur products,
• Fragile items (see section 7.4)
• Garment bags not designed for travel
• Heirlooms,
• Human organs,
• Irreplaceable items,
• Jewelry,
• Keys,
• Liquids, including alcohol/liquor
• Machinery (including parts),
• Manuscripts,
• Medication
• Medical equipment (not used as assistive devices pursuant to 14
CFR 382.3);
• Money, gift cards negotiable papers, and securities,
• Musical instruments,
• Orthodontics,
• Perfumes,
• Perishable items, (see section 7.4)
• Photos and personal documents
• Photographic, cinematographic, audio, video, equipment and
accessories, cameras and related items.
• Precious metals and stones,
• Publications,
• Samples,
• Silverware,
• Tobacco products,
• Tools, battery powered hand tools, toolboxes and containers,
• Watches and timepieces.
• Works of art, such as paintings and sculptures, or
• Similar valuable, fragile, or perishable items or items not
packaged in accordance with other rules described in this
contract.
7.7.1.2. For travel wholly between U.S. points, liability for loss, delay or
damage to checked baggage is limited to $3,800 per guest holding a
confirmed reservation.
7.7.2 International Baggage– Limitation of Liability
7.7.2.1. Spirit will NOT accept any agricultural items, perishable items or any
product that does not conform to the Customs and/or Agricultural
government entities of any foreign country that the guest is entering
into or leaving from on a Spirit flight.
7.7.2.2. Limitations on the number, size and weight of checked baggage apply.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 40
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
7.7.2.3. For travel to/from international destinations, the limitations of
liability, as applicable under the Warsaw Convention or the Montreal
Convention, will apply.
a) For international travel (including domestic portions of
international itineraries) to which the Warsaw Convention
applies:
Liability for loss, delay or damage to checked baggage is limited
to approximately $9.07 per pound for checked baggage and
$400 per guest for unchecked baggage.
Liability is for a maximum of 40 lbs/18.1 kgs ($362.80) per
checked bag, unless the guest pays an additional checked
baggage charge, and the precise weight of the baggage is noted
on the guest's baggage claim check.
b) For international travel (including domestic portions of
international itineraries) to which the Montreal Convention
applies:
Liability for loss, delay or damage to checked baggage is limited
to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights (“SDR”).
For international travel, the weight of each piece of checked
baggage is presumed to be the applicable standard baggage
allowance set forth above. This weight will establish the
carrier's maximum liability, unless excess weight is clearly noted
on the Guest's claim check, and additional charges are paid. If
the weight of the baggage is not recorded on the Baggage
Check, then it is presumed that the weight of the baggage falls
within the standard baggage allowance set forth above.
7.7.3. Spirit does NOT accept declarations of higher value.
7.8 Portable Electronic Devices
7.8.1 Use of Portable Electronic Devices Onboard the Aircraft
• Small authorized PEDs are devices under two (2) pounds and are of a size
that can easily be placed in a seat pocket along with the other materials that
are normally found in the seat pocket (Passenger Safety Information Card,
Menu and/or airsickness bag). They include devices like tablets, readers and
mobile phones and may be used during all phases of flight including taxi,
take-off and landing. However, if using them during taxi, take-off and
landing, you must secure these devices by holding them, putting them in
your pocket or holster, or placing them in a seatback pocket.
• Large authorized PEDs are devices two (2) pounds or more such as full-size
laptops. They must be turned off and stowed during taxi, takeoff and
landing. You can stow them by having them under the seat in front of you
or in an overhead compartment. These devices may be used about 10,000
feet when authorized by a Flight Attendant announcement.
SPIRIT AIRLINES CONTRACT OF CARRIAGE 41
UPDATED AS OF MARCH 01, 2023
• On all flights operating outside U.S. airspace, portable electronic devices
cannot be used during taxi, takeoff and landing, but may be used above
10,000 feet when authorized by a Flight Attendant announcement.
• Headsets or earphones (buds) are required for any audible portable device
and any cords or accessories must not impede emergency egress.
• Devices must have their cellular network service disabled, commonly known
as “Airplane Mode”, from the time the aircraft door is closed for departure
from the gate until the aircraft is taxiing to the gate upon arrival when
authorized by a Flight Attendant announcement.
• Cell phone use is still limited and calls cannot be made during times when
cellular network is to be disabled.
• Items which may not be operated at any time inside the aircraft include: TV
receivers, remote controlled toys, e-cigarettes, radio transmitters and
personal air purifiers.
• Due to safety concerns, guests must comply with all crewmembers
instructions regarding the use of portable electronic devices.
• The DOT, with the FAA and Pipeline and Hazardous materials Safety
Administration (PHMSA) has issued an emergency order banning all
Samsung Galaxy Note7 smartphone devices for air transportation. Samsung
Galaxy Note7 devices may not be transported on anyone’s person, in carryon baggage, or in checked baggage on all flights to, from, or within the
United States.

























