  Visit our COVID-19 information hub for Air Canada’s response to the pandemic and how to adjust your current or future travel with us.
Our Customer Commitment under the Canadian Air Passenger Protection Regulations
We’re committed to providing the highest quality of service to all our customers, and we believe it’s important to make our service commitments readily available to you. To this end, below we have outlined the key elements that matter most to you, our valued customer.
If you are denied boarding, your flight is cancelled or delayed for at least two hours, or your baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights, please contact your air carrier or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency’s website
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
.
For full terms and conditions applicable to your carriage please consult our tariffs.
Quick Links

Lost, delayed or damaged baggage
Delays or cancellations
Denied boarding
Seating children
Tariffs
Additional Air Canada policies
Delayed or damaged baggage
We work hard to ensure your checked baggage arrives with you. If it is delayed, please be assured we will do our best to deliver it to you within 24 hours. If you cannot locate your checked baggage upon arrival, please make sure to see an Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express agent immediately.
If you have already completed a WorldTracer incident report and have an incident report number (example: YULAC12345), you can update or review the status of your delayed baggage by accessing the WorldTracer website.
If you have not completed an incident report upon arrival, you must contact our Central Baggage Office without delay at 1 888 689-BAGS (2247).
If your baggage is delayed, damaged, or lost, Air Canada will refund the fees you paid to check it in.
In respect to destruction, loss, delay, or damage to baggage, a carrier’s liability is limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per passenger. This limit applies to most international itineraries, as well as to domestic itineraries within Canada. For more information on Special Drawing Rights and currency exchange rates, visit the International Monetary Fund
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
website.
You will be reimbursed for reasonable interim out-of-pocket expenses upon submitting your receipts via our webform
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
(select Baggage Issues > Baggage > Submit Expenses). Claims must be submitted no later than 21 days from the date your baggage was placed at your disposal.
Read more about our delayed and damaged baggage policies or review our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 60).
Scroll to
Top ↑
Notifying you of delays or cancellations
Note: This section applies to flights operated by Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, and Air Canada Express flights.
If a flight is delayed or cancelled due to an unforeseen problem, we’ll do our best to keep you well-informed at the airport and on board the affected aircraft. That’s why you must provide your contact information at the time of booking.
Based on the information available, we will promptly provide timely updates, including the reason for the delay or cancellation:
As soon as we’re aware of such a delay or cancellation, and then;
At regular intervals of 30 minutes until a new departure time for the flight is set, or new travel arrangements for passengers have been made; and
As soon as possible when new information is available.
In the event of an extended delay or a cancellation
Note: This section applies to flights operated by Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge and Air Canada Express flights. Please note that if you’re travelling on a codeshare flight (operated by another airline), you must contact the carrier directly, as the obligation to provide compensation and alternate travel arrangements is the responsibility of the carrier operating the flight which was delayed or cancelled.
Some delays and cancellations are within an airline's control, whereas others, like those caused by severe weather or airport and air traffic disruptions, are simply out of our hands. Whatever the reason for the delay or cancellation, if your Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge or Air Canada Express flight is delayed or cancelled, our agents will do everything possible to assist you.
Standards of Treatment:
When a flight is delayed or cancelled due to reasons within Air Canada's control or required for safety purposes, and (i) you have been informed of the delay or cancellation less than 12 hours before the departure time indicated on your ticket, and (ii) you have waited two hours after the departure time indicated on your ticket, we’ll provide you with the following:
Food and drink in reasonable quantities, considering the length of the wait, the time of day and location;
Access to a means of communication; and
Hotel or comparable accommodations for overnight delays, for out of town passengers, subject to availability and within reasonable distance from airport, along with transportation to the hotel or other accommodation, and back to the airport.

If the delay is outside of Air Canada’s control, we’ll be happy to offer you our hotel contact information where you can access our valued customer rates.
Alternative Travel Arrangements:
If your flight is delayed by more than three hours or cancelled because of a situation that’s outside of our control, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:
We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express flight, or on one of our partner airlines on a reasonable route from the same airport, within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination or re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport.
We can also change your return to match the same length of stay if necessary.
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.

If your flight is delayed by more than three hours or cancelled due to a situation that is within our control or required for safety purposes, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:

We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express flight, or on one of our partner airlines within 9 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination that departs within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we’re still unable to provide a confirmed reservation that complies with the above, we’ll seek to re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport.
We can also change your return to match the same length of stay if necessary.
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.

We invite you to read more information on delays, cancellations and refunds, or to consult our tariffs.

Compensation
If you’re a passenger whose flight was cancelled or delayed because of a situation within our control, and you arrive at your original destination with a delay of three hours or more, you’ll be entitled to receive compensation for delays and cancellations from Air Canada (unless you are informed of the cancellation or of the delay 15 days before the scheduled time of departure).
Compensation for delays and cancellations is calculated based on your arrival time at final destination and is $400 CAD (for delays at arrival between 3 and 6 hours), $700 CAD (for delays at arrival between 6 and 9 hours), and $1,000 CAD (for delays at arrival by 9 hours and more).
If you refuse the alternate travel arrangements offered because travelling no longer serves a purpose, and the delay is within our control, you’ll be entitled to receive compensation of $400 CAD.
Please note that you are not entitled to receive delay or cancellation compensation if you have already been paid denied boarding compensation, or if you have already been paid under another passenger rights regime for the same event.
Your Recourses:
Should you wish to provide feedback or file a complaint about our services, please complete our web form
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
and we’ll contact you shortly. You may also file a complaint with the Canadian Transportation Agency
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
.
Scroll to
Top ↑
If you are denied boarding
Note: This section applies to flights operated by Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge and Air Canada Express flights*.
It’s never our intention to inconvenience you. However, due to operational requirements and inventory control, sometimes we can’t accommodate you even though you have a confirmed reservation.
Volunteers:
During a denied boarding situation, Air Canada will first solicit volunteers who are willing to give up their seat in exchange for compensation.
Boarding Priorities:
If there aren’t enough volunteers, we may deny boarding involuntarily to passengers holding a confirmed reservation in accordance with our policy on denied boarding priority, as found in our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 90).  We’ll give priority, in the following order, to unaccompanied minors; passengers with a disability, their support person, service animal, or emotional support animal, if any; passengers travelling with family members; and passengers who were previously denied boarding on the same ticket, provided the carrier is informed of this fact.
Information:
If you’re involuntarily denied boarding, we’ll tell you why you were denied boarding, the compensation and standards of treatment to which you may be entitled as well as the recourses you have available.
Rebooking:
If you’re denied boarding because of a situation that’s outside of our control, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:
We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge, or Air Canada Express flight, or on one of our partner airlines on a reasonable route from the same airport, within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination or re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport.
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.

If you’re denied boarding due to a situation that is within our control or required for safety purposes, here’s how your travel plans will be accommodated:
We’ll rebook you on the next available Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge or Air Canada Express flight or on one of our partner airlines within 9 hours of your original departure time; or
If we cannot do this, we’ll re-route you on any carrier via any reasonable air route to your destination that departs within 48 hours of your original departure time; or
If we’re still unable to provide a confirmed reservation that complies with the above, we’ll re-route you from another airport that is within a reasonable distance of your departure airport to your destination (if any). If your new departure is from such an airport, Air Canada will arrange for your transportation to that other airport;
If none of the rebooking options provided to you accommodate your needs, and your flight is disrupted by three hours or more, or cancelled, we can refund the unused portion of your ticket. If your travel no longer serves a purpose as a result of the delay or cancellation, we can also return you to your point of origin and refund the used portion.
Standard of Treatment:
If you’re denied boarding for a situation within Air Canada’s control or for security reasons, we’ll provide you with the following before you board your next flight booked as part of your alternate travel arrangements, unless this would further delay you:
Food and drink in reasonable quantities, considering the length of the wait, the time of day and location;
Access to a means of communication; and
Hotel or comparable accommodations for overnight delays for out-of-town passengers, subject to availability within reasonable distance from airport, along with transportation to the hotel or other accommodation, and back to the airport.
Compensation:
If you’re a passenger who is denied boarding involuntarily because of a situation within our control, you’ll be entitled to receive "denied boarding compensation" from Air Canada, unless:
You haven’t fully complied with the Air Canada ticketing and check-in requirements, or you aren’t acceptable for transportation under Air Canada' rules and practices. For more information on refusal to transport, see our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 75);
The flight is cancelled or delayed;
You’re offered accommodations on the same flight as the one specified on your ticket, at no extra charge.

Denied boarding compensation is calculated based on your arrival time at destination and is $900 CAD (if delayed between 0 and 6 hours), $1,800 CAD (if delayed between 6 and 9 hours), and $2,400 CAD (if delayed by 9 hours and more).
Read more about travelling on a different flight for compensation. The complete rules explaining your rights, the payment of compensation and boarding priorities are available at all airport counters and boarding locations, as well as in our domestic tariff and international tariff (Rule 90).
* Please note that if you were denied boarding on a codeshare flight (operated by another airline than Air Canada), we recommend that you contact the carrier directly, as the obligation to provide compensation and alternate travel arrangements is the responsibility of the carrier operating the flight.
Scroll to
Top ↑
Seating children with family
Air Canada will do everything possible to ensure children under the age of 14 are seated close to their accompanying family member free of charge.
Air Canada has a comprehensive policy that ensures every reasonable effort is made by Air Canada's airport staff, flight attendants and through in-flight procedures, to seat children under the age of 14 next to their accompanying adult. Please note that this policy does not apply to families who have opted to pay the advance seat selection fee.
Passengers travelling in Signature Class pods must call Air Canada Reservations to ensure that they’re provided with proper family seating.
Please refer to our section on Children and Travel for additional information.
Scroll to
Top ↑
We invite you to read some of our other customer service commitments, which reflect our dedication to transparency and the highest level of service.
Also, our Delayed Flights and Cancellations section answers a lot of other questions you may have if your plans are disrupted.
Our Tariffs
An air carrier's tariff is the document that contains the terms and conditions of carriage applicable to the air services it provides. All carriage sold by Air Canada is subject to its tariff.
Air Canada is required by law to publish its domestic terms and conditions of carriage on this website and to make its domestic tariffs available for public inspection.
Please consult our domestic tariffs as well as other applicable tariffs filed, where required, with the appropriate authorities, by clicking on the relevant links below.
Domestic Tariff
Open PDF file
*
(for travel within Canada)
International Tariff
Open PDF file
*
(for travel between Canada and a foreign country/region)
Carrier Surcharge
Open PDF file
* Tariffs are subject to change without notice.
Scroll to
Top ↑
Additional Air Canada Policies
Please read below other important conditions that govern transportation on Air Canada, e.g. our check-in and boarding gate deadlines, baggage policies and other conditions of contract.
Carry-on baggage policy
Oversized carry-on bags aren’t permitted on our aircraft and may cause flight delays for all passengers. Please ensure your carry-on bags are within the maximum allowed size as indicated below; they’re required to fit in the double-size verification device at check-in or boarding time.
You may carry items which fall within the 2-piece carry-on baggage allowance on board, as follows:
One (1) carry-on bag or suitcase (wheels and handles included in the size) and
One (1) personal article such as a briefcase, laptop computer, diaper bag, camera case or other similar item.
  Standard article Personal article
Maximum size 23 cm x 40 cm x 55 cm (9 in x 15.5 in x 21.5 in)
Wheels and handles included. 16 x 33 x 43 cm
(6 in x 13 in x 17 in)
Maximum weight Your carry-on baggage must be light enough that you can store it in the overhead bin unassisted.

It is recommended that documents and medication be packed in your carry-on baggage. All prescription medications must be properly labelled with the names of the patient, medication, and the issuing medical office or pharmacy.
Learn more about carry-on baggage restrictions.
Checked baggage policy
When travelling with Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge and Air Canada Express, you are entitled to a free checked baggage allowance, depending on your destination and/or fare purchased. When the number, weight and/or overall dimensions (length + width + height) of your checked bags exceed the limits of your free checked baggage allowance, additional checked baggage charges will apply.
Ensure your checked bags are properly identified.
Please do not pack valuables in your checked baggage. Excess valuation may be declared on certain types of articles. Special rules apply to fragile, valuable or perishable articles. Learn more about checked baggage restrictions.
  Maximum Overall Measurement
(Length + Width + Height) Maximum Weight
Economy Class
(view complete baggage allowance) 158 cm
62 in 23 kg
50 lb
Business Class
Up to 3 bags 158 cm
62 in 32 kg
70 lb

Bags exceeding 32 kg (70 lb) in weight, 292 cm (115 in) in linear dimensions (length + width + height, wheels and handles included) or 203 cm (80 in) in length will not be accepted as checked baggage. Please contact Air Canada Cargo for handling.
If more than one carrier is providing the transportation for your journey, each carrier may apply different rules to baggage (both checked and carry-on).
Check-in and boarding gate deadlines
You must obtain your boarding pass and check in any baggage as per the check-in deadlines shown below.
Additionally, you must be available for boarding at the boarding gate as per the boarding gate deadlines indicated below. Failure to respect check-in and boarding gate deadlines may result in the reassignment of any pre-reserved seats, the cancellation of a reservation, and/or ineligibility for denied boarding compensation.
Itinerary When to arrive at the airport Check-in & baggage drop off deadline Boarding gate deadline** Boarding gate closes***
Within Canada 90 minutes 45 minutes 30 minutes 15 minutes
To/from the U.S. 120 minutes

From Toronto (YYZ) & Montréal (YUL):
180 minutes
(3 hours)* 60 minutes 30 minutes 15 minutes
From Toronto (YYZ) 90 minutes
International (including Mexico and the Caribbean) 180 minutes

From international airports:
240 minutes
(4 hours) 60 minutes 45 minutes 30 minutes
* If you are travelling to the U.S., you must clear U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) prior to departure in Canada. Note that for morning departures, pre-board security screening at YYZ opens at 4:30 am; YUL opens at 6:15 am.
** This is the latest you should be at the departure gate, ready for boarding.
*** Arriving after this time will result in reassignment of any reserved seats, the cancellation of reservations, and/or ineligibility for denied boarding compensation.
Cancelling your flight
Air Canada will cancel any purchased ticket and provide a full refund without penalty up to 24 hours after purchase. Beyond 24 hours, voluntary changes to your itinerary may require the payment of additional fees and fare upgrades. If you are travelling on a non- refundable ticket, we won’t be able to make exceptions in the event of an unexpected trip cancellation or medical emergency.
We recommend the purchase of travel insurance.
Any travel credit banked for unused tickets is non-transferable: when the credit is redeemed, it must be used by the same person whose name appears on the original ticket.
For additional information, please refer to our Refunds page.
Scroll to
Top ↑
Important Notices
Passengers on a journey involving an ultimate destination or a stop in a country other than the country of departure are advised that international treaties known as the Montreal Convention, or its predecessor, the Warsaw Convention (including its amendments) may apply to the entire journey, including any portion thereof within a country. For such passengers, the applicable treaty, including special contracts of carriage embodied in any applicable tariffs, governs and may limit the liability of the carrier.
Notice of liability limitations
The Montreal Convention or the Warsaw Convention system may be applicable to your journey and these Conventions govern and may limit the liability of air carriers for death or bodily injury, for loss, delay, or damage to baggage.
Where the Montreal Convention applies, the limits of liability are as follows:
No financial limits for death or bodily injury.
With respect to destruction, loss of, or damage or delay to baggage, 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per passenger, in most cases. Please note that pursuant to the Canadian Air Passenger Protection Regulations, this limit also applies to Canadian domestic itineraries.
For damage caused by delay to your journey, 5,346 Special Drawing Rights per passenger, in most cases.
Where the Warsaw Convention system applies, the limits of liability are as follows:
16,600 Special Drawing Rights with respect to death or bodily injury if the Hague Protocol to the Convention applies, or 8,300 Special Drawing Rights if only the Warsaw Convention applies. Many carriers have voluntarily waived these limits in their entirety, and U.S. regulations require that, for journeys to, from or with an agreed stopping place in the U.S., the limit may not be inferior to U.S. $75,000.
17 Special Drawing Rights per kg for loss of or damage or delay to checked baggage and 332 Special Drawing Rights* for unchecked baggage.
The carrier may also be liable for damage caused by delay.
For more information on Special Drawing Rights and currency exchange rates, visit the International Monetary Fund
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
website.
Further information may be obtained from Air Canada as to the limits applicable to your journey. If your journey involves carriage by different carriers, you should contact each carrier for information on the applicable limits of liability.
Regardless of which Convention applies to your journey, you may benefit from a higher limit of liability for loss, delay, or damage to baggage by making a declaration of your baggage value at check-in and paying any supplementary fee that may apply. Alternatively, if your baggage value exceeds the applicable limit of liability, you should fully insure it before you travel.
Time limit for action: Any action in court to claim damages must be brought within two years from the date of arrival of the aircraft, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived.
Baggage claims: Written notice to the carrier must be made within 7 days of the receipt of checked baggage in the case of damage, and, in the case of delay, within 21 days from the date on which it was placed at the disposal of the passenger.
Baggage Fee: For lost, damaged or delayed baggage, the carrier will also compensate you for any fees that may have been paid to check that baggage.
Notice of contract terms incorporated by reference
Your contract of carriage with the carrier that provides you with carriage by air, whether international, domestic or a domestic portion of an international journey, is subject to this notice; to any notice or receipt of the carrier; and to the carrier's individual terms and conditions (Conditions), related rules, regulations and policies (Regulations) and any applicable tariffs.
If your carriage is by more than one carrier, different Conditions, Regulations and any applicable tariffs may apply for each carrier.
The Conditions, Regulations and any applicable tariffs of each carrier are, by this notice, incorporated by reference into and made part of your contract of carriage.
The Conditions may include, but are not restricted to:
Conditions and limits on the carrier's liability for the bodily injury or death of passengers.
Conditions and limits on the carrier's liability for the loss of, damage to or delay of goods and baggage, including fragile or perishable goods.
Rules for declaring a higher baggage value and for paying any supplementary fee that may apply.
Application of the carrier's Conditions and limits of liability to the acts of the carrier's agents, servants and representatives, including any person providing either equipment or services to the carrier.
Claims restrictions, including time limits by which passengers must file claims or bring actions against the carrier.
Rules about reconfirmations or reservations; check-in times; the use, duration and validity of air transportation services; and the carrier's right to refuse carriage.
Rights of the carrier and limits on the carrier's liability for delay or failure to perform a service, including schedule changes, substitution of alternative carriers or aircraft and re-routing, and, when required by applicable law, the obligation of the carrier to notify passengers of the identity of the operating carrier or substituted aircraft.
Rights of the carrier to refuse carriage to passengers who fail to comply with applicable laws or who fail to present all necessary travel documents.

You can obtain more information about your contract of carriage, and find out how to request a copy, at places where transportation on the carrier is sold. Many carriers also have this information on their websites. When required by applicable law, you have the right to inspect the full text of your contract of carriage at the carrier's airport and sales offices, and to receive a copy by mail or other delivery service from each carrier free of charge, upon request.
If a carrier sells air transportation services or checks baggage specifying carriage on another carrier, it does so only as an agent for the other carrier.
China departing flights only
Passenger notifications
In the event that a flight is delayed, cancelled or diverted due to an unforeseen problem, we will make every effort to keep you well informed at the airport and onboard the affected aircraft. Based on the information we have, we will promptly provide timely updates, within 30 minutes of becoming aware of such a cancellation, delay or diversion, and explain the reason for the delay, cancellation or diversion through various methods, such as:
onboard/gate announcements
our Flight Status tool on our website
the airport Flight Information Display Systems
calling Air Canada Reservations

You may also register for our Flight Notification Service to receive delay or cancellation information or gate change details for your flight.
Flight delays and cancellations
If you are affected by a situation that causes a delay or flight cancellation, we provide the details of how Air Canada will assist you.
Response plan for Tarmac Delays
Our contingency plan for lengthy tarmac delays at Chinese airports is intended to provide you with information regarding Air Canada's policies and procedures for handling your travel on our airline in the event of a lengthy ground delay, while you are onboard our aircraft at a Chinese airport.
Air Canada Privacy Policy
Last update: 9 September 2022

This Privacy Policy provides you with important information about how Air Canada handles your personal information. Your privacy is important to us, and safeguarding your privacy is fundamental to our business.
Whether you are using our website, mobile application, other online platforms or contact centres, this policy applies.
We encourage you to periodically review this policy, as we may update it from time to time. Updates will be posted on our website and we will take reasonable steps to alert customers to any significant changes before they take effect.
This policy may be supplemented by other consents you provide, and by any terms and conditions that you agree to as part of your purchase or participation in any other Air Canada products, services, promotions, contests or events.
Privacy Policy topics
1.
To what information does this policy apply?
2.
What personal information do we collect and when?
3.
Why do we use and share your personal information?
4.
Additional collection, use and disclosure of Aeroplan Member personal information
5.
What are your choices when it comes to the handling of your personal information?
6.
Where do we keep your personal information?
7.
How is your personal information protected? How long is it kept?
8.
How can you access or correct your personal information?
9.
How can you ask questions or raise concerns about privacy?
Welcome
Air Canada (“Air Canada”, “we”, “us”, “our”) thanks you for using our website, www.aircanada.com, as well as any other websites that are owned and operated by us (collectively, the “Website”). We believe you will find the Website informative and easy to use and we hope that it will become your primary tool when making travel plans.
Acceptance of the Terms of Use
The following terms of use (“Terms of Use”) govern your use of the Website. Please review these Terms of Use carefully before using the Website. Each time you access or use the Website, you are entering into a contract with us and you agree to be bound by these Terms of Use. If you do not agree to be bound by and comply with these Terms of Use, please do not access or use the Website.
We also reserve the right to deny you access to or use of the Website if we have reason to believe that you do not comply with these Terms of Use.
Changes
Air Canada reserves the right to change these Terms of Use at any time. We will notify you of any changes by posting an updated version of the Terms of Use on this Website. It is your responsibility to regularly review these Terms of Use. If you use the Website after we make any changes, it means you have accepted the changes and that you agree to be bound by the Terms of Use as modified.
Air Canada also reserves the right to modify or discontinue, either temporarily or permanently, the Website including any products, goods or services contained on or referenced on our Website, with or without notice and without any liability.
Linking
Representations and Warranties
Limitations of Use
Your Privacy
Liability Disclaimer
Indemnity
Information you Provide to Air Canada
Software Available on our Website
Governing Law
Injunctive and Similar Relief
Entire Agreement
Evidence
Waiver
Severability
Additional Terms and Conditions
English Language
We’ve assembled information on our baggage policies, as well as details on our optional product and service charges. We hope you’ll use this information to plan and personalize your trip with us, and create your ultimate travel experience.
About the prices on this page
Fees are accurate as of March 28, 2017, and are subject to change without notice.

Unless otherwise stated, fees are in Canadian dollars (CAD) (Bank of Canada Currency Converter)
External site which may not meet accessibility guidelines.
As you search for and book your flight, all prices will be displayed in the currency of the country edition you are using.
Fees are inclusive of the minimum (0%) to maximum (20%) tax which may apply, based on your itinerary.
As you search for and book your flight, the exact taxes, fees and other charges applicable to your booking will be displayed prior to completing your purchase.
Fees apply to flights operated by Air Canada, Air Canada Express and Air Canada Rouge. Additional/different fees may apply if your flight is operated by another carrier.
If you are travelling with Air Canada Vacations, please contact them directly, or view their specific terms and conditions
Find out more about travelling with our Star Alliance or other airline partners.
Rest assured that, as you search for and book your flight, all prices will be displayed in the currency of the country edition you are using. In addition, all taxes, fees and other charges will be displayed prior to completing your purchase.
If you’re travelling with Air Canada Vacations
Additional/different fees may apply. View specific terms and conditions
Opens in New Window
or contact Air Canada Vacations
Opens in New Window
if you have questions.
Carry-on Baggage
When you travel on Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge or Air Canada Express, you can bring on board:
1 standard article
1 personal article
your coat, small purse, special need or infant care item, including a small collapsible stroller
View our carry-on baggage policy for complete details.
Checked Baggage
When you travel on Air Canada, Air Canada Rouge or Air Canada Express (flights operated by Jazz), your free baggage allowance is determined by your fare, destination, date of ticket purchase and loyalty program status.
If your itinerary includes travel with one of our codeshare partners or with another airline, it’s important to know that the baggage policies of the other carrier may apply
Weight and size restrictions - all itineraries
Maximum weight per bag 50 lb (23 kg)
Maximum linear dimensions per bag 62 in (158 cm)
Checked baggage charges
Fees displayed below are per one way of travel.
Effective January 01, 2017, the Chinese Ministry of Transport has approved the “Flight Regularity Administrative Regulations”. These regulations are formulated in accordance with relevant Chinese laws in order to improve flight punctuality rates, effectively manage flight delays, improve the quality of civil services, preserve the legal right of consumers and maintain aviation transportation order. These regulations are applicable to all Air Canada operations with regard to the management of flight regularity, delays and passenger complaints for any flight departing or having a stopover within Chinese territories (excluding Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan). The Air Canada Contingency Plan for Lengthy Tarmac Delays at Chinese Airports is meant to comply with these regulations. The Contingency Plan is separate from and not a party of Air Canada’s General Conditions of Carriage.
TARMAC DELAYS
Limits of lengthy onboard ground delays
Lengthy ground delays can take place during taxi-out prior departure, during taxi-in after landing or as a result of a diversion. Throughout all of these phases, the following limits apply:
Air Canada will not permit an aircraft to remain on the tarmac at a Chinese Airport for more than three (3) hours, unless there is a definite take-off time. Upon reaching three (3) hours, unless there is a definite take-off time, Air Canada will return the aircraft to the gate or another suitable disembarkation point, where passengers will be allowed to deplane.
Delays longer than the above time limit may be necessary if:
the pilot-in-command determines there is a safety-related or security-related reason why the aircraft cannot leave its position on the tarmac to deplane passengers; or
Air Traffic Control advises the pilot-in-command that returning to the gate or another disembarkation point elsewhere in order to deplane passengers would significantly disrupt airport operations.
Passenger services during a lengthy onboard ground delay
Air Canada will provide passengers with adequate food and potable water no later than two (2) hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (in the case of departure) or touches down (in the case of arrival and diversions) if the aircraft remains on the tarmac, unless the pilot-in-command determines that safety or security considerations preclude such service.
For all flights, Air Canada will ensure that operable lavatory facilities will remain available while the aircraft remains on the tarmac. Air Canada will also ensure adequate medical attention is available, if needed.
Passengers will receive notifications regarding the status of the tarmac delay every 30 minutes while the aircraft is delayed, including the reason for the delay, if known.
Codeshare flights
In the event that you are on a flight operated by one of Air Canada’s codeshare partners, the tarmac delay contingency plan of the carrier operating your flight will apply in the event of a tarmac delay.
LARGE AREA FLIGHT DELAYS
In the event of a large area flight delay, the Chinese Department of Transportation requires all carriers operating within Chinese territories to cooperate with the airport, ground handling agents, airport police department, ATM and other supporting service units to execute the large area flight delay emergency response plan. Air Canada has taken steps to ensure sufficient resources are available to support the execution of the large area flight delay emergency response plan, in coordination with all other involved bodies.
RESPONSIBILITY
System Operations Control (SOC) is responsible for the management and quality of these plans. The decision-making for these plans lies within the SOC Centre. SOC will make their decisions taking into account, notably, the effects of flights delays, flight cancellations and lengthy tarmac delays on passengers. Airport Customer Service (ACS), Flight Operations and In-Flight Service will carry out the plan at the station and flight level.
