Flight disruption: delay and cancellation
A delayed flight or a cancellation can be caused by many reasons, which can be divided into the following categories:
Within Carrier’s control (ex : mechanical failure noticed during regular maintenance of the aircraft, etc.)

Within Carrier’s control but required for safety purposes (ex : in the event of a mechanical problem not foreseen or not noticed during regular maintenance, any requirement or decision relating to the safety of the flight, etc.)

Outside of Carrier’s control (ex : bad weather conditions, natural disasters, collision with wildlife, medical emergencies, strikes, political instability, air traffic control restrictions, etc.)
  Categorizing the reason for the disturbance will help you determine your rights under the Regulations. Please note that in case of a flight disruption, we will provide regular updates to inform you of the reason and expected duration of the delay.
What are the Carrier’s obligations when the departure time is delayed by three (3) hours or more or when the flight is cancelled?
The Carrier must transport you on its next flight on which space is available.

If the Carrier is unable to provide reasonable alternative transportation on its services, it will arrange transportation on the services of other carriers with which it has interline traffic agreements for such transportation.

If the flight disruption is outside of Carrier’s control and it is unable to provide such alternative transportation within 48 hours of your original departure time, the Carrier will offer you to accept an alternative transportation on a later flight on its services or the services of other carriers with which it has interline traffic agreements for such transportation.

In the event that space on the other carrier is only available in a lower class of service than originally reserved, the Carrier will, at your choice:
provide space in the lower class of service and refund the difference in fares, or
provide a full refund of the unused portion of the fare paid.

In the event that a large carrier is unable provide reasonable alternative transportation on its services or on the services of a partner carrier(s), within 9 hours of your original departure time, the Carrier will arrange transportation with another carrier offering reasonable air route services to the passenger's final destination and departing within 48 hours of the original departure time.

If the flight disruption is outside of the large carrier’s control and it is unable to provide alternative transportation on its services or on the services of a partner carrier(s) within 48 hours of your original departure time, the large carrier will offer you to accept an alternative transportation on a later flight operated by any carrier.

If no reasonable transportation can be arranged to accommodate your travel needs, the Carrier will refund any unused portion of your ticket and, when applicable, provide transportation to your point of origin as indicated on the ticket, within a reasonable time at no additional cost. When the flight disruption is outside of Carrier’s control, this option is only possible for the alternative transportation offered after the 48 hours following your original departure time.

Also, if the flight disruption is within carrier’s control and is not required for safety purposes, and you were informed of it 14 days or less before your original departure time, you may be entitled, in addition to refund, to a compensation of CA $125 in case of a small carrier, and CA $400 in case of a large carrier.


Am I entitled to compensation for the delay or the cancellation of my flight?
When the flight disruption is within the carrier’s control and is not required for safety purposes, you are entitled to claim the following compensation:

Between 3 and 6 hours: if your arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by three (3) hours or more, but less than six (6) hours; CA $125 in case of a small carrier, and CA $400 in case of a large carrier;

Between 6 and 9 hours: if your arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by six (6) hours or more, but less than nine (9) hours; CA $250 in case of a small carrier, and CA $700 in case of a large carrier;

More than 9 hours: if your arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by nine (9) hours or more; CA $500 in case of a small carrier, and CA $1000 in case of a large carrier.


Am I entitled to meal vouchers, means of communication or hotel accommodation while I am waiting?
Following your flight disruption, Air Transat will provide you, free of charge, meal vouchers and electronic means of communication (when available) if the following conditions are met:
The flight disruption is within Air Transat’s control, including when it is for safety purposes.
2 or more hours have passed since the scheduled departure time
You were informed of the disruption less than 12 hours before your scheduled departure time.
These standards of treatment do not further delay your trip.
If the delay is expected to extend to an overnight stay, we will pay for your overnight hotel stay and airport transfers.

If the delay occurs on the tarmac after the doors of the aircraft are closed for take-off or after the flight has landed, we will offer you drinks and snacks, accessible lavatories and proper cabin conditions, where it is safe to do so. If it is feasible, we will offer ways to communicate with people outside of the aircraft. If the delay exceeds three (3) hours and if conditions allow it, we will offer passengers the option of disembarking.


How to make a claim?
In order to validate your eligibility to submit a flight disruption claim, you must:
Submit a formal request through the form.

For insurance purposes, you can download a certificate of delay up to 120 days after your initial departure date.

Your claim must be received by Air Transat within one year of the date of the flight disruption. Air Transat will respond to your claim within a maximum of 30 days of the date of receipt of the submitted claim for flight disruption.
Baggage
Lost or delayed baggage
Your baggage is lost or delayed?
Complete a Property Irregularity Report (PIR) with an Air Transat agent upon arrival at the destination airport.
All information gathered will be entered into the WorldTracer Baggage tracing system.
Our local representative will keep you informed during your stay at your destination.
Track progress online via WorldTracer Baggage tracing system with your reference number from your PIR.
Once your baggage is located, every effort will be made to deliver it to you in a secure manner and as quickly as possible.
In the case you do not receive your luggage within two days, Please fill out the form.

What is Air Transat's responsibility?
Air Transat’s liability for damages sustained in the case of destruction or loss of, or delay of checked baggage is the same for all flight sectors and will be limited to the sum of 1288 SDR.

Fees paid for the lost or delayed baggage are refundable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Montreal Convention. Baggage is considered lost if it is not found within 21 days from the date on which it should have been delivered.

Please note that, we will treat all lost/damaged baggage claims in accordance with the provisions of the Montreal Convention and its amendments for all international flights and in  accordance with the Air Transat Domestic Tariff Norms (available upon request) for all domestic flights.

You wish to make a claim?
For delayed baggage: Please make your inquiry no later than 21 days from the date your baggage was returned to you.
For lost baggage​: Please make your inquiry within 30 days from the date the baggage should have been delivered.

Failing to comply to this condition will result in absence of a compensation.

Please fill out the form with theses documents:
The original PIR/report
A copy of your E-ticket
Any applicable receipts
Any other relevant supporting documentation
A brief overview of the situation including any details of which we should be aware


Damaged baggage
What to do if you find that your luggage is damaged?
At the airport: Complete a Property Irregularity Report (PIR) with an Air Transat agent.
After you leave the airport: If a PIR is not completed upon your arrival, your claim must be submitted in writing to Air Transat within 7 days from the date of receipt of the baggage, accompanied by a copy of your E-ticket.

Repairing your damaged luggage
Keep the damaged bag, even if you think it is beyond repair.
You will be informed of the name and address of a baggage repair shop, as close as possible to your residence or temporary address.
You have 45 days from the date that your claim was made to present your baggage for repairs.
Please take your damaged baggage along with the original PIR to the supplier mentioned at the bottom of the completed report. The supplier will bill Air Transat directly.

What is Air Transat's responsibility?
Air Transat’s liability for damages sustained in the case of destruction or damage of checked baggage is the same for all flight sectors and will be limited to the sum of 1288 SDR.

Fees paid for the damaged baggage are refundable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Montreal Convention.

Please note that, we will treat all lost/damaged baggage claims in accordance with the provisions of the Montreal Convention and its amendments for all international flights and in  accordance with the Air Transat Domestic Tariff Norms (available upon request) for all domestic flights.

You wish to make a claim?
Please send us your claim no later than 7 days (after the date your baggage was delivered to you). Failing to comply to this condition will result in absence of a compensation.

Fill out the form including the following documents:
The original PIR/report
A copy of your E-ticket
A written claim
Picture of bagage damage if no PIR/Report completed
Any receipt for baggage fee/excess
A complete and detailed list of damaged items with their individual value (proof of purchase may be required) and approximate date of purchase


OTHER INFORMATION
Baggage liability limitations
What to do if you find that your luggage is damaged?
At the airport: Complete a Property Irregularity Report (PIR) with an Air Transat agent.
After you leave the airport: If a PIR is not completed upon your arrival, your claim must be submitted in writing to Air Transat within 7 days from the date of receipt of the baggage, accompanied by a copy of your E-ticket.

Repairing your damaged luggage
Keep the damaged bag, even if you think it is beyond repair.
You will be informed of the name and address of a baggage repair shop, as close as possible to your residence or temporary address.
You have 45 days from the date that your claim was made to present your baggage for repairs.
Please take your damaged baggage along with the original PIR to the supplier mentioned at the bottom of the completed report. The supplier will bill Air Transat directly.

What is Air Transat's responsibility?
Air Transat’s liability for damages sustained in the case of destruction or damage of checked baggage is the same for all flight sectors and will be limited to the sum of 1288 SDR.

Fees paid for the damaged baggage are refundable in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Montreal Convention.

Please note that, we will treat all lost/damaged baggage claims in accordance with the provisions of the Montreal Convention and its amendments for all international flights and in  accordance with the Air Transat Domestic Tariff Norms (available upon request) for all domestic flights.

You wish to make a claim?
Please send us your claim no later than 7 days (after the date your baggage was delivered to you). Failing to comply to this condition will result in absence of a compensation.

Fill out the form including the following documents:
The original PIR/report
A copy of your E-ticket
A written claim
Picture of bagage damage if no PIR/Report completed
Any receipt for baggage fee/excess
A complete and detailed list of damaged items with their individual value (proof of purchase may be required) and approximate date of purchase
Fill out the form

OTHER INFORMATION
Baggage liability limitations
Air Transat cannot always guarantee that your checked baggage will be carried on the flight if sufficient space is not available as per its discretion.

Furthermore, in the event of delay in delivery or loss of baggage, the passenger must notify the Carrier’s airport personnel in writing (through the completion of a Property Irregularity Report) as soon as the failure to deliver checked baggage at the airport of destination is ascertained. Failure to do so will result in denied compensation in the event the baggage in question is declared lost after a 21-day search.

To ensure your baggage travels with you, please present all of your checked baggage to us at your airport of departure. Air Transat cannot assume responsibility for any baggage that is not presented at our check-in counter.

The following items declared or found in checked baggage shall be subject to removal prior to the baggage in question being accepted for carriage by the Carrier:
medication
medical devices
money
jewellery
silverware
electronics
laptop computers
personal audio/video devices
negotiable documents
securities
samples of business documents or other valuables (other than articles of clothing) shall not be accepted as checked baggage.
The Carrier shall not be liable for damage to fragile, valuable or perishable items where such damage is the result of the inherent defect, quality or vice of the item in question.

Unsuitably or inadequately packed items will be accepted at the Carrier’s discretion and, where accepted, compensation may be denied as a result of the aforementioned factors. The Carrier assumes no liability for the delay in delivery of any perishable items accepted as checked baggage.

Any complaint, whether for total or partial loss, damage, or delay, must be submitted in writing and sent within the time limit above, failing which, no action may be brought against the Carrier.


It is important to submit your application via our form within the given time limit.
Denied boarding
Due to operational requirements, policies or otherwise, it sometimes happens that the number of passengers holding confirmed reservations exceeds the number of seats available, so we refer to flight overbooking.

Air Transat undertakes to limit the inconvenience of overbooking by calling on volunteers who voluntarily give up their reservations

If there are not enough volunteers, other passengers may be denied boarding involuntarily, in accordance with the boarding priorities of the Carrier.

Denied boarding can be caused by many reasons, which can be divided into the following categories:
Within Carrier’s control (ex : mechanical failure noticed during regular maintenance, of the aircraft, etc.)
Within Carrier’s control but required for safety purposes (ex : in the event of a mechanical problem not foreseen or not noticed during regular maintenance, any requirement or decision relating to the safety of the flight, etc.)
Outside of Carrier’s control (ex : bad weather conditions, natural disasters, collision with wildlife, medical emergencies, strikes, political instability, air traffic control restrictions, etc.)

If you are denied boarding for reasons within the airline’s control (including those for safety purposes), Air Transat will offer you the following free of charge:
food and drink in reasonable quantities
access to means of communication.
hotel accommodation and ground transportation if the new flight is on the next day.
If the new flight does not satisfy your travel needs, a refund of any unused portion of your ticket and, when applicable, transportation to your point of origin as indicated on the ticket, within a reasonable time at no additional cost.

Please note that if you were denied boarding for a reason outside of the Carrier’s control, Air Transat can only provide you an alternate transportation on its services or on the services of a partner carrier(s).
Am I eligible to compensation for my denied boarding?
I volunteered to forgo boarding the flight
In the case of a flight overbooking, the airline will then ask if there are volunteers to forgo boarding the flight. Therefore, you could have volunteered to give up your reservation in exchange for a payment at the choice of the airline. You are not entitled to any other type of compensation.
I was denied boarding against my will
When the denied boarding is due to reasons within carrier’s control, without being necessary for safety purposes, you are entitled to compensation:

$900 if the arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by less than six (6) hours;
$1,800 if the arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by six (6) hours or more, but less than nine (9) hours;
$2,400 if the arrival at destination as indicated on the original ticket is delayed by nine (9) hours or more.
However, you are not entitled to compensation if:
You have not fully complied with the airline’s ticketing, check-in and reconfirmation requirements, or you are not acceptable for transportation under the airline’s tariffs on file with the Canadian Transportation Agency.
A government requisition of space has occurred or a smaller capacity aircraft was substituted for safety or operational reasons
A reduction of available seating capacity has occurred for safety or operational reasons.
You are offered accommodation in a section of the aircraft other than that specified in your ticket, at no extra charge (a passenger seated in a section for which a lower fare applies must be given an appropriate refund).

How will the compensation be paid?
If you qualify for compensation, Air Transat will pay you by check the amount specified above, as soon as it is operationally feasible, but no later than 48 hours after the time of the denied boarding.

Air Transat may offer you travel credits of greater monetary value in place of the cash payment. You may, however, insist on the cash payment or refuse all compensation and file private legal action.

Acceptance of the compensation (by endorsing the cheque within 30 days) relieves Air Transat from any further liability to the passenger caused by its failure to honour the confirmed reservation. However, you may decline the payment and seek to recover damages in a court of law or in some other manner.
General Terms and Conditions
Ensure your travel plans falls within Air Transat’s general terms and conditions.
GENERAL SALES TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF AIR TRANSAT A.T. INC. (hereinafter referred to as the "Terms and Conditions")
PLEASE ENSURE THAT YOU READ CAREFULLY AND UNDERSTAND THE PRESENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS BEFORE MAKING A BOOKING. A COPY OF THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CAN BE STORED ELECTRONICALLY OR PRINTED. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THE PRESENT TERMS AND CONDITIONS, PLEASE DO NOT FINALIZE YOUR BOOKING AND STOP YOUR USE OF THE WEBSITE.
THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS ARE SUBJECT TO AND DO NOT AFFECT ANY STATUTORY RIGHTS TO WHICH YOU ARE ENTITLED AND WHICH CANNOT BE EXCLUDED PURSUANT TO ANY MANDATORY PROVISIONS OF APPLICABLE LAW.
The purchase of travel services (hereinafter referred to as the "Services") offered by Air Transat A.T. Inc. ("AIR TRANSAT"), a Canadian company with registered office at 5959 Boulevard de la Côte-Vertu, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Canada, H4S 2E6 or other services offered by third parties suppliers on this web site (hereinafter referred as the "Website"), constitutes a contractual agreement between you and AIR TRANSAT and/or its suppliers, as the case may be, and implies your acceptance of AIR TRANSAT'S conditions regarding bookings as described below as well as the contents of the hyperlinks included therein.
Car rental, hotel rooms and purchase of insurance coverage on this Website are offered by third party suppliers. The terms and conditions of these providers thus apply to these services. AIR TRANSAT cannot be held responsible in any way for the acts or omissions of any of these third party suppliers.
When completing a Train + Air booking, you enter into two separate contracts: a contract of carriage by air with Air Transat and a contract of carriage of passengers by rail with SNCF. Please note that Air Transat is not responsible and cannot be held liable for the proper performance of the contract of carriage by rail, which is subject to the liability rules applicable in rail transport matters as well as the terms of the document entitled "Tarifs voyageurs" (Condition of Carriage agreement), and which falls under the responsibility of SNCF MOBILITES. For more details, see the legal notices of the SNCF.
You hereby confirm that you are of the age of majority in the country from which you are conducting your purchase and you hereby agree to use the Website in accordance with its terms of use.
1- DESCRIPTION OF WEBSITE
AIR TRANSAT has put forth all necessary efforts to ensure that all descriptions contained on the Website are up to date. The Website is updated on a continuous basis. The information on the Website is provided "as is". Save for errors arising from AIR TRANSAT negligent acts or omissions, AIR TRANSAT will not be held liable for any modifications and provides no guarantee or representation that the Website will be error-free or up to date. Overall AIR TRANSAT provides no guarantee with respect to the correctness, completeness or relevance of the information and statements published on the Website. 
2- PRICES, CARRIER SURCHARGES AND RESTRICTIONS
Prices are based, among other things, on fuel costs, exchange rates and taxes in force on the date of the last modification of the Website. Air Transat, like most air carriers, collects surcharges to offset the volatility and fluctuation of certain recurring expenses and operating costs. These surcharges represent the "carrier surcharges" and are intended to cover Air Transat's operating expenses and mitigate unforeseen fluctuation, including, without limitation, fuel costs and variation of foreign currency exchange rates.
Unless otherwise noted herein, all prices are quoted in the currency appearing in your purchase confirmation and are per person. The terms and conditions which apply to changes and/or cancellation of air tickets sold by AIR TRANSAT may vary. For more information, please refer to clause 8 of the present terms and conditions under the title "Fares". AIR TRANSAT reserves its right to cancel a booking without further notice, due to non-payment or due to litigation regarding payment. The name and phone number of the person to be contacted in the event of non-payment to AIR TRANSAT is found on the first page of the invoice.
Price reductions resulting from a promotion or a decision by AIR TRANSAT are applicable to new bookings only. AIR TRANSAT reserves its right to refuse any booking made at or based on an erroneous price (not applicable to sales made in Colombia).
3- ACCEPTED METHODS OF PAYMENT
We wish to inform you that only debit cards or credit card payments are accepted on the Website and by phone. When you pay on the Website, your payment information is encrypted and sent over a secure connection.
You can pay with the following credit cards: American Express (credit card), MasterCard (credit card), Visa (credit card), Visa Debit, Visa Electron. Please note that credit card and bank fees may be charged in some countries in connection with the purchases made on the Website. Additional bank fees or credit card fees charged by the customer's credit card provider or bank in connection with a purchase will be borne solely by the Customer.
AIR TRANSAT charges the exact amount of the price shown at the moment of purchase without applying any transaction or service fees. However, your card issuer may apply additional fees, including, among other things, cross-border fees based on the fact that AIR TRANSAT is a Canadian owned company based in Canada. Please contact your card issuer in order to obtain the nature and the amount of any eventual additional fees before finalizing your purchase. By finalizing your purchase, you confirm that you have been advised of this. AIR TRANSAT shall not be held responsible for any additional fees applied by your card issuer.
To avoid fraudulent purchases, (e.g. due to a lost card or the provision of false information), AIR TRANSAT reserves the right to request additional information from the passengers and/or the cardholder at any time after a purchase has been made - including at check-in - so that it may verify the information provided when the purchase was made. AIR TRANSAT also reserves the right to require another form of payment should a customer not be able to accurately provide such additional information. Furthermore, Air Transat reserves the right to cancel the booking in case of suspected fraud, theft or dishonesty.
By booking through the Website by debit or credit card, you acknowledge and consent that AIR TRANSAT may, without your signature, draw payment from your credit or debit card.
4- BOOKING AND CONFIRMATION
Bookings are strictly personal, non-transferable and must be accompanied by a payment in full before they can be confirmed. At the time of booking of certain flights, you may be requested to provide certain information found in your passport. Confirmation regarding prices, travel dates, flights, hotels, car rentals, and other services, as the case may be, is only given once the payment is received and is based on availability of Services. Upon completion of the check-out procedure and receipt of the payment in full, you will receive and email confirming that your booking has been accepted and summarizing all the details of your flight(s).
5- TRAVEL DOCUMENTS
A valid passport is required for all travels outside your country of residence and is the only reliable and universally accepted evidence of citizenship. Certain countries require that the passport be valid for six (6) months beyond the date of return to your country of residence, or require a visa for citizens or born in another country. Some countries may not allow entry to visitors carrying the passport of certain other countries.
Please consult the "CHILDREN" section below when a minor under the applicable laws of the country of departure or destination is travelling alone or with one parent only. You should contact the nearest foreign government office of the country you plan to visit for definitive, up-to-date information on travel documents, such as passports, visas, affidavits or notarized letters of consent, that are required by each person for whom you are purchasing travel. Country-specific and interactive passenger-specific information is also available at www.iatatravelcentre.com and www.travel.gc.ca. If you require additional assistance, please contact us at 1-877-872-6728 or +1-514-636-3630 (hearing impaired: 1-866-234-5136 TTY).
It is your responsibility to contact the nearest foreign government office of the country you plan to visit. Failure to provide the required documents may result in denied boarding privileges by the carrier or the relevant authorities, without recourse or refund. Your entry may also be refused even if your documentation is complete. A previous criminal record could result in denied entry into the U.S. or in other countries. No trip refund or replacement will be given for inadequate, lost or stolen documents or for any denied entry. AIR TRANSAT cannot be held liable for any damages resulting from failure to obtain travel documents, to comply with applicable laws, for delay in document delivery, or for any aid or information given by third parties.
6- CHILDREN
We strongly recommend that children carry a consent letter if they are travelling abroad alone, with only one parent/guardian, with friends or relatives or with a group. For the purposes of this consent letter, a child is defined as anyone who is under the age of majority under the applicable laws of a country of departure or destination.
A consent letter is not a legal requirement in Canada, but it can simplify travel for Canadian children, as it may be requested by immigration authorities when entering or leaving a foreign country or by Canadian officials when re-entering Canada. We recommend that you talk to a lawyer about the legal issues that apply to you and your children's unique situation, particularly if your parenting arrangement has special terms governing international travel. Carrying a consent letter does not guarantee that children will be allowed to enter or leave a country, as every country has its own entry and exit requirements.
For additional information about entry and exit requirements for Canadian children travelling alone, with only one parent or with another accompanying person, see Travel Advice and Advisories from the Government of Canada or contact the nearest embassy or consulate of the destination country. We recommend that the letter be signed by every non-accompanying person or organization with the legal right to make major decisions for the child, including anyone with:
custody rights,
guardianship rights, or
parental authority (in Quebec only)
We also recommend that the letter be signed by any non-accompanying parent who has access to the child. Consult justice.gc.ca if you have questions about parenting terminology. Before writing a consent letter, read the Consent Letter FAQ from the Government of Canada.
7- FLIGHTS AND CARRIERS
Flights offered by AIR TRANSAT are conducted in accordance with the applicable tarif and pursuant to regulations set out by the Canadian Transportation Agency. All such flights and rates are also subject to approval by the relevant governmental authorities. Consolidations and changes in the published schedule, aircraft type, days of operation, air carrier providing air transportation and flight itinerary may take place outside the control of AIR TRANSAT at any time and, in some exceptional cases (when customers are already at the gate for example), without the possibility for AIR TRANSAT to grant the customers a prior notice.
Schedule Check and Connecting Flights: Flight schedules are subject to change. You are entirely responsible for verifying your flight schedule with AIR TRANSAT during the 24-hour period immediately prior to the departure and the return date. AIR TRANSAT undertakes to notify, reasonably in advance and through means it deems appropriate, customers of any schedule modification resulting in the moving-up or the delaying of the flight departure time or in case of cancellation of a flight. Whenever you book connecting flights, you have the responsibility to allow yourselves sufficient time to make the connection. No control can be exercised to guarantee flight schedules, which may be altered or affected by various circumstances. To the extent permitted by applicable laws and international conventions, and unless airline tickets from "point of origin to final destination" were purchased from AIR TRANSAT, the latter will not be liable for any scheduling change or missed flight connection, including any additional costs incurred and special, incidental or consequential damages, including the loss of wages and vacation days, or additional expenses arising from the foregoing).
Airport check-in: AIR TRANSAT recommends that you arrive at the airport check-in counter at least three (3) hours prior to departure, failing which your reservation may be cancelled and your seats assigned to other customers, with no right of recourse.
Seat assignment: Unless already pre-selected, aircraft seating is conducted by staff at the air carrier's check-in counter. In the case of Club Class seats offered by AIR TRANSAT, in the event of a change in the type of aircraft, air carrier, or in the case of a flight consolidation, repayment by AIR TRANSAT of the sums paid by the customer for the seat Club Class shall be deemed a final and complete settlement.
Other applicable conditions: Air transport conditions and claims relating to loss and/or damage to baggage are governed by the Montreal Convention [http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/eng/acts/C-26/page-5.html], or the Warsaw Convention [http://laws-lois.justice.gc.ca/fra/lois/C-26/page-3.html#h-1] as the case may be, the applicable tariffs of the air carrier as well as the conditions of contract appearing on the airline ticket and any government regulations that establish the limits of air carrier liability. Once filed with and approved by federal regulatory authorities, any amendments or modifications to the applicable air carrier's general terms and conditions of carriage are not subject to additional public notice and are legally binding (in Colombia they might become legally binding only after review by regulatory authorities). Air tickets that are not used, in whole or in part, on the dates indicated, cannot be honoured on another flight but may, on request, be subject to partial refund of certain taxes and fees under the general conditions established by AIR TRANSAT.
Refusal to transport – Removal of passengers: Save as set out in the Montreal Convention and the Warsaw Convention, AIR TRANSAT shall not be liable for either its refusal or the refusal of another air carrier to transport a passenger or for the cancellation of a reserved space or removal of a passenger from an outbound flight and/or return flight due to, but not limited to, the passenger failure to present himself/herself for an outbound flight (herein referred to as "no-show"), the passenger being deemed to put a public safety at risk, the passenger's failure to carry the necessary travel documents or any issue relating to the validity or consistency of such documents, a threatened or actual violation by the passenger of law or AIR TRANSAT or another airline considers that it is necessary to deny boarding to a passenger in order to prevent danger or risk to this passenger or to any other passenger or property or to ensure the proper conduct of the flight.
  8- CANCELLATION FARES AND NO-SHOWS
The fares and the terms and conditions to any change and/or cancellation of tickets issued by AIR TRANSAT are as follows:
Flights between Canada and Europe









Flights between Canada and Central America, Caribbean and United States









Domestic flights within Canada





Prices indicated above are approximate and are subject to change without prior notice, only for new reservations. Prices are calculated in the local currency of the departure city.
The price difference is the difference between the sale price of the ticket at the time of booking and the one appearing for the same airline ticket in the AIR TRANSAT booking systems on the date of the request for the change or cancellation (excluding any applicable promotion). No refund will be made to the Customer by AIR TRANSAT if the price of the ticket is less at the date of the change or cancellation. AIR TRANSAT may determine the amount of the cancellation and change fees in other currencies by using an exchange rate determined in its sole discretion when proceeding to such currency conversion.
No-show: If a passenger does not cancel its flight ticket within 24 hours prior to the scheduled departure and fail to present himself/herself for an outbound flight (no-show), the passenger will be deemed to have forfeited its tickets for this flight segment. It is understood and agreed that the total amount paid for the air ticket is equivalent to the value of the damages sustained from the inability to resale the forfeited seat and that such amount will be retained by AIR TRANSAT as compensation and liquidated damages; no refund will be issued.
In addition, some additional fees may apply to certain requests to change to your booking. If applicable, full details regarding any such fees will be provided to you if and when you request a change to your booking.
Every time a passenger does not embark a flight, and once the ticket bought has become invalid and did not allow transportation, the passenger may obtain the reimbursement of individualised taxes and fees displayed as such, the payment of which proceeds from the actual embarkation of the passenger. This right to reimbursement does not apply to fuel surcharges or other surcharges of the carrier. The refund will be made no later than thirty (30) days from the date of receipt of a refund request, which can be filed by any means, including online (Request for a refund of taxes)
or by mail to the following address: Customer service, Transat Tours Canada Inc., Place du Parc, 300 Léo Pariseau Street, Suite 200, Montreal (Quebec), Canada, H2X 4C2. This refund may result in the billing of a fee up to twenty percent (20%) of the amount refunded. It will be free of charge when the application is filed online.
9- BAGGAGE
Limits: You acknowledge having read and accept the rules and regulations of AIR TRANSAT with respect to baggage weight, size and number at our Baggage section.
Liability: The provisions of the Montreal Convention, or the Warsaw Convention, as the case may be, the applicable tariffs of the air carrier, as well as the notice appearing on the passenger ticket and baggage check, govern the loss of and damage to baggage and establish the limits of the air carrier's liability. Passengers' baggage and property are transported, stored and handled at passenger's risk at all times.
If the first leg of your flight departs from a European Union Member Country, take notice that the applicable summary of AIR TRANSAT's liability under the Montreal Convention, according to Council Regulation (EC) 2027/97 on air carrier liability in the event of accidents, as amended by the Regulation (EC) 889/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council is included in section 15 below.
10- ADVANCE SEAT SELECTION AND/OR PREPAYMENT OF CHECKED BAGGAGE FEE
Passengers with a medical condition are advised to contact our Contact Centre at 1-877-872-6728 or +1-514-636-3630 to request assistance if required, and appropriate seating, subject to availability.
Upon payment of applicable fees for seat selection, AIR TRANSAT will assign you your preferred seat, depending on availability. You can make changes to your seat selection up to 24 hours before departure by calling the Contact Centre.
You may also be eligible to prepay the fees in advance related to your baggage allowance. Certain conditions apply. Please visit www.airtransat.com for more details on the fees and conditions related to your checked baggage allowance according to your destination.
AIR TRANSAT will not issue a refund for any prepaid checked baggage or if you cancel your seat selection before departure.
For safety reasons, passengers travelling with infants must contact the Contact Centre for their selection as they can occupy only certain seats.
Passengers occupying emergency exit row seats must be fit and able bodied, willing to assist, must have no reduced mobility, must not be pregnant, must be aged 16 or older, and must be fluent in English and/or French. Seat requests may be altered at check-in or on board if passengers do not meet these criteria. If you or members of your party have to be moved because you do not meet the stated standard safety criteria, you will not be offered a refund.
Subject to operational requirements, it may be necessary to change the aircraft type operating your flight. Should this occur, we will try to match your seat request on the substituted aircraft. This, however, cannot be guaranteed. AIR TRANSAT will then assign you an equivalent seat. If we cannot assign you an equivalent seat, we will contact you to ask about your seating preferences. In the event that we are unable to assign you an equivalent seat, you may be entitled to a refund. In such a case, you must submit your request for a refund with a copy of your boarding pass along with your contact information within 30 days following the return date of your flight in order to proceed with your request. Any request submitted after that period or without this information will not be considered. AIR TRANSAT's liability is limited to refunding the charges incurred for advance seat selection.
Your advance seat selection will be held for you until 75 minutes before departure. After that time, advance seat selection can be cancelled without refund.
In case of change of flight, the same seat selection will not entail in any additional cost.
11- OPTION PLUS ADVANTAGES
The Option Plus package includes:
1. Seat selection in Eco Class (see the Advanced Seat Selection Terms and Conditions);
2. Priority check-in at specially designated counters;
3. Supplementary checked baggage allowance*;
4. Priority luggage delivery;
5. Priority access to security point (Montreal, Ottawa and Vancouver);
6. Priority boarding;
7. Special advantages on board. You will receive:
   a) a comfort kit;
   b) a set of natural wood earbuds;
   c) an alcoholic beverage during bar service;
   d) a beer or a bottle of wine (200 ml) with your meal (transatlantic flights);
   e) a snack.
Additional information
   - Children 12 and under travelling with you also enjoy the benefits 2, 4, 5 and 6.
   - Option Plus is not refundable. Some airport services may not be available due to facility limitations.
   - If you have a connecting flight between two cities, service Option Plus will be offered only on the longest flight segment.
*With the exception of flights to/from Haiti.
For more details on the Option Plus benefits, please visit our website.
12- HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS
For travellers departing from Canada, it is advisable to visit the Transport Canada before travelling to view the list of dangerous goods that can be carried on a person as well as in baggage or hand luggage during a flight.
For travellers departing from a country other than Canada, it is advisable to check with the relevant airport or government authorities with respect to any restrictions related to the transportation of dangerous goods.
 
Without prejudice to the above:
a. for travellers departing from an European Union Member Country, a list of prohibited articles (approved by the Commission Regulation (EC)820/2008, of 8 August 2008) may be found on the Access to European Union law website.
b. for travellers departing from the United States, a list of prohibited articles may be found on the Transportation Security Administration website.
13- CUSTOMER LIABILITY
Health: If your physical condition so requires, you must ensure that you have a sufficient quantity of any required medication with you, and that you must carry such medication in your hand baggage at all times. You must also consult competent medical authorities prior to departure about preventive medical measures to be taken with you as regards to the countries to be visited.
Contagious illness: Any passenger showing symptoms of a contagious illness may be refused boarding on an aircraft by decision of the captain, after consultation with the medical staff on the ground or with the MedLink medical support service.
A contagious illness is suspected when a passenger suffers from one or more of the following signs and symptoms:
Persistent cough
Frequent sneezes
Weakened breathing
Persistent diarrhea
Persistent vomiting
Rash
Abnormal Bleeding
Reduced mental capacity
Appears visibly sick
If any of these symptoms are associated with a fever (38°C or more), the probability that the passenger is suffering from a contagious illness is increased.
In order to avoid being denied boarding because of a contagious illness, any passenger showing symptoms of a contagious illness must be able to provide, upon request, a medical certificate certifying that the passenger in question is not contagious and that he or she can fly without endangering the health of other passengers or crew members.
Pregnancy: A medical certificate establishing the due date and fitness to travel is required. The air carrier may refuse pregnant passengers for whom air travel may involve a risk to themselves or their unborn children. Please consult the Travel info section of the Website in this regard. Colombian regulations do not allow travel by air when exceeding 30 weeks of gestation.
14- PRIVACY
Your personal information may be shared by AIR TRANSAT within the group of companies controlled by our parent company, Transat A.T. Inc., for the purposes described in our privacy policy.
In order to facilitate your travel arrangements, we might need to share your personal information with third party providers such as airport authorities, customs and immigration authorities, government agencies and travel agents involved in making your travel arrangements. We may also share your personal information with third parties who provide services to you or to AIR TRANSAT, such as hotels and car rental companies (for the purpose of making a reservation), companies that provide airport and mobility assistance or other third party providers. We do not sell personal information to third parties, and we only allow third parties outside the Transat A.T. Inc. group of companies to send you marketing information where we have your permission to do so.
For the above mentioned purposes you authorise AIR TRANSAT to retain and use your personal information and to transmit it within the group of companies controlled by Transat A.T. Inc., authorities and government agencies or to providers of the above mentioned services. You hereby declare having read and accepted the privacy policy available at https://www.airtransat.com/en-CA/Legal-notice/Privacy-policy.
France only:
In accordance with Article L 237 -6 of the Code de sécurité intérieure (French Internal Security Code), please be informed that air carriers may have to transmit reservation, checking and boarding data collected from their passengers ( API/PNR) to French public services for the purposes and under conditions as defined in the decree N° 2014-1095 dated 26/09/2014.
15- LIABILITY
AIR TRANSAT shall not be liable towards you, in contract or otherwise, for any damage, whether direct, indirect, incidental, special or consequential resulting from your use of the Website or arising from any information obtained or booking made through this Website.
AIR TRANSAT shall not be held liable, in any way whatsoever, for the acts and omissions of a third party provider or supplier.
The liability of AIR TRANSAT shall be subject to the Montreal Convention and the Warsaw Convention, as applicable.
In particular, the following summarizes AIR TRANSAT's liability:
Compensation in the case of death or injury

There are no financial limits to the liability for passenger injury or death. For damages up to 113,100 Special Drawing Rights (SDRs) (approximately Euro 128,935) AIR TRANSAT cannot contest claims for compensation. Above that amount, AIR TRANSAT can defend itself against a claim by proving that such damage was not due to its negligence or other wrongful act or omission; or such damage was solely due to the negligence or other wrongful act or omission of a third party.
Passenger delays

In case of passenger delay, AIR TRANSAT is liable for damage unless it took all measures that could reasonably be required to avoid the damage or it was impossible to take such measures. The liability for passenger delay is limited to 4694 SDRs (approximately 5,351 Euro ).
Baggage delays

In case of baggage delay, AIR TRANSAT is liable for damage unless it took all reasonable measures to avoid the damage or it was impossible to take such measures. The liability for baggage delay is limited to 1131 SDRs (approximate Euro 1,244).
Destruction, loss or damage to baggage

AIR TRANSAT is liable for destruction, loss or damage to baggage up to 1131 SDRs (approximately Euro 1,244). In the case of checked baggage, it is liable even if not at fault, unless the baggage was defective. In the case of unchecked baggage, AIR TRANSAT is liable only if at fault.
Higher limits for baggage

A passenger can benefit from a higher liability limit by making a special declaration at the latest at check-in and by paying a supplementary fee.
Complaints on baggage

If the baggage is damaged, delayed, lost or destroyed, the passenger must write and complain to AIR TRANSAT as soon as possible. In the case of damage to checked baggage, the passenger must write and complain within 7 days, and in the case of delay within 21 days, in both cases from the date on which the baggage was or should have been made available to the passenger.
Liability of contracting and actual carriers

If the air carrier actually performing the flight is not the same as the contracting air carrier, the passenger has the right to address a complaint or to make a claim for damages against either. If the name or code of an air carrier is indicated on the ticket, that air carrier is the contracting air carrier.
Time limit for action

Any action in court to claim damages must be brought within two years from the date of arrival of the aircraft, or from the date on which the aircraft ought to have arrived.
16- LAWS
These Terms and Conditions are deemed to be executed and governed by the laws of the country in which the gateway city is located.
The invalidity or unenforceability of any provisions of this agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this agreement, which shall remain in full force and effect.
17- CONDITIONS ONLY APPLICABLE FOR COLOMBIA
RIGHT TO UNILATERAL TERMINATION
If the contract of carriage originates in Colombia, the passenger may terminate the contract upon condition that the passenger has communicated that decision to the air carrier not later than twenty-four (24) hours before the scheduled departure time. The carrier or travel agent may deduct a maximum amount equivalent to ten percent (10%) of the air fare, depending on the conditions thereof. This benefit does not apply to promotional fares. The refund must be made within a maximum period of thirty (30) calendar days after the notice of termination was communicated to the carrier.
COOLING-OFF PERIOD
For carriage originating in Colombia and when a purchase is made by non-traditional methods or is not in person, the passenger is entitled to the right to cooling-off period. The notice thereof may be sent to the air carrier through any available communication channel offered by the air carrier. That notice shall be sent within five (5) business days after the purchase. Cooling-off period is only available for carriage that is set to commence beyond five (5) calendar days from the day of purchase. Local Colombian taxes that are not to be paid back, will not be refunded to the passenger.
The Colombian authority for the protection of consumer rights is the Superintendencia de Transporte. More information is available at https://www.supertransporte.gov.co (Please note that this website can only be accessed from a Colombian IP address).
18- ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (only applicable for the UK)
An Online Dispute Resolution (ODR) platform has been set up by the European Commission : https://ec.europa.eu/consumers/odr which provides easy access to alternative dispute resolution (ADR). Please note that AIR TRANSAT is not currently subscribed to an approved Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme therefore neither the ODR platform nor any approved ADR providers will be able to accept your complaint.

You can log your complaint with CAA's Passenger Advice and Complaints Team (PACT) by completing the online complaint form via the CAA website: www.caa.co.uk/passengercomplaints. Under the subtitle 'How the CAA can help' you will need to click on the link 'Refer your complaint to us'. You can then access the CAA's consumer portal where you can submit your complaint to PACT.
19- ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (only applicable for France)
Pursuant to Article R 616-1 of the French Consumer Code, we inform you that we are members of the Association des Médiateurs Européens, an association of accredited consumer mediators. In the event of a dispute, an amicable solution is best suitable. In the absence of an amicable agreement, if you wish to submit any dispute to this association for a mediation at our expense, you may contact them within one year of the written complaint previously sent to us.

The referral to the consumer mediator must be made :
either by filling in the form provided for this purpose on the AME CONSO website: www.mediationconso-ame.com
or by post addressed to AME CONSO, 11 Place Dauphine - 75001 PARIS.
20- CONTACT US
If you have any queries regarding your booking, or if you wish to cancel or change your booking or have any other questions regarding our Website and services, please contact our Customer Service at 1-877-872-6728 or +1-514-636-3630, or fill and submit an electronic form
.
Transat Tours Canada Inc., Place du Parc, 300 Léo Pariseau Street, Suite 200, Montreal (Quebec), Canada, H2X 4C2
