PORTER AIRLINES (CANADA) LIMITED AND PORTER AIRLINES INC.
GENERAL CONDITIONS OF CARRIAGE
APPLICATION
These General Conditions of Carriage apply to your travel booked with Porter Airlines
(Canada) Limited and operated by Porter Airlines (Canada) Limited or Porter Airlines Inc.
(collectively, or individually as the context dictates, referred to below as “Porter”).
REVIEW ITINERARY UPON RECEIPT
Please review your travel itinerary provided by Porter upon receipt. You should contact
Porter within 24 hours of receipt of your itinerary should you have any questions.
PORTER CONTACT INFORMATION
For flight arrival/departure information or to make changes to your reservation, please
call (416) 619-8622 or (888) 619-8622, or visit our website at www.flyporter.com. Note
that changes to reservations may be subject to change fees and/or other charges and
may not be available on all fare types, as stated in Porter’s tariffs and summarized
below.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
NOTICE – TRAVEL ON PORTER IS GOVERNED BY PORTER’S PUBLISHED
TARIFFS (contract of carriage)
The terms and conditions under which Porter provides transportation (a) entirely within
Canada are set out in Porter’s published Domestic Tariff; (b) between Canada and the
United States are set out in Porter’s Transborder Tariff; and (c) between Canada and
countries other than the United States are set out in Porter’s International Tariff
(available for review at https://www.flyporter.com/Travel/Conditions-Of-Carriage). Some
of these conditions are set out in your itinerary and summarized below. Please refer to
the relevant Tariff for the complete terms and conditions which apply to and
govern your travel.
CONDITIONS
1. Required Identification: To board a flight, all domestic passengers are required to
present one piece of valid government-issued photo ID that shows their name
and date of birth, such as a driver’s license or a passport. Alternatively,
passengers may present two pieces of valid government-issued non-photo
ID, at least one of which shows their name and date of birth, such as a birth
certificate.
All passengers travelling between Canada and points outside Canada are
required to present a valid passport. Citizens of countries other than Canada and
the United States should contact their consulate or embassy for boarding
requirements. Proof of onward or return travel may be required at check-in.
2. Check-In Deadline: Getting to the airport, completing check-in and going through
security takes time, so we recommend arriving at the airport as early as possible;
no later than 60 minutes prior to a domestic flight and 90 minutes prior to an
international flight.
You must:
● obtain your boarding pass and check in any baggage by the
check-in deadline shown below, AND
● be available for boarding at the boarding gate by the deadline shown
below.
Failure to meet these deadlines may result in the loss of your assigned seat
or the cancellation of your reservation.
Domestic Flights
Toronto City
Airport
Toronto Pearson Other Airports
Arrival Time 30 minutes 120 minutes 60 minutes
Check-In Deadline 20 minutes 45 minutes 30 minutes
Boarding Time 20 minutes 30 minutes 30 minutes
Boarding Gate
Closes
10 minutes 10 minutes 10 minutes
International Flights
Toronto City
Airport
Toronto Pearson Other Airports
Arrival Time 60 minutes 180 minutes 180 minutes
Check-In Deadline 45 minutes 75 minutes 75 minutes
Boarding Time 20 min 30 min 30 min
Boarding Gate
Closes
10 minutes 10 minutes 10 minutes
All times prior to scheduled departure time.
3. Reconfirmation of flights is not required, but you may confirm your flight times by
visiting www.flyporter.com and selecting flight status on the main page or by
calling Porter prior to your departure.
4. Advance seat assignments are not guaranteed and may change without notice. If
your pre-assigned seat is unavailable, we will try to accommodate you in a
comparable seat and will refund any applicable seat selection fees.
5. Tickets are non-transferable and name changes are not permitted.
6. Subject to the 24-hour refundability described in paragraph 7 below, voluntary
changes to your itinerary are permitted up to one hour prior to the scheduled
departure time on most fare types and may require the payment of additional
fees and fare upgrades as detailed below:
(a) Subject to the exceptions listed in (b) and (c) below, the following
change/cancellation fees apply to the indicated fare classes for all
itineraries within North America (see sub-paragraph (d) below for
European itinerary change fees):
● “PorterClassic Basic” tickets are non-refundable and cannot be
changed or cancelled.
● “PorterClassic Standard” tickets are non-refundable and subject to
a $100.00 change/cancellation charge (plus taxes) per direction
per passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus taxes).
● “PorterClassic Flexible” tickets are non-refundable and subject to
a $50.00 change/cancellation charge (plus taxes) per direction per
passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus taxes).
● “PorterClassic Freedom” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterReserve Navigate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterReserve Ultimate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
(b) For tickets purchased and paid for in whole or in part via redemption of
VIPorter points, the following change/cancellation fees apply to the
indicated fare classes, except for same-day changes to flights to the
same destination departing the same day, which are subject to the fees
described in (c) below:
● “PorterClassic Basic” tickets are non-refundable and cannot be
changed or cancelled.
● “PorterClassic Standard” tickets are non-refundable and subject to
a $50.00 change/cancellation charge (plus taxes) per direction per
passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus taxes) and/or VIPorter
points, based on the original method of payment.
● “PorterClassic Flexible” tickets are non-refundable and subject to
a $25.00 change/cancellation charge (plus taxes) per direction per
passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus taxes) and/or VIPorter
points, based on the original method of payment.
● “PorterClassic Freedom” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes) and/or VIPorter points, based on the original method of
payment.
● “PorterReserve Navigate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterReserve Ultimate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
(c) For changes made on the day of departure to a flight departing later the
same day to the same destination, the following change/cancellation fees
apply to the indicated fare classes on the indicated routes, including fares
purchased in whole or in part via redemption of VIPorter points:*
● “PorterClassic Basic” tickets are non-refundable and cannot be
changed on the day of travel.
● Same-day, “PorterClassic Standard”:
o On all routes other than between Toronto-Montreal,
Toronto-Ottawa and Toronto-Newark, “PorterClassic
Standard” tickets shall be subject to a same-day change
charge of $150.00 (plus taxes) per direction per passenger,
however the passenger shall not be required to pay the
difference in fare.
o On “PorterClassic Standard” tickets between
Toronto-Montreal or Toronto-Ottawa, “PorterClassic
Standard” tickets shall be subject to a same-day change
charge of $100.00 (plus taxes) per direction per passenger,
however the passenger shall not be required to pay the
difference in fare.
o On “PorterClassic Standard” tickets between
Toronto-Newark, same-day at-airport changes to an earlier
flight are available without a change charge, and the
passenger shall not be required to pay the difference in
fare. Same-day changes to a later flight the same day
shall be subject to a $100.00 change charge (plus taxes)
per direction per passenger, however the passenger shall
not be required to pay the difference in fare.
● Same-day, “PorterClassic Flexible”:
o On all routes other than between Toronto-Montreal,
Toronto-Ottawa and Toronto-Newark, “PorterClassic
Flexible” tickets shall be subject to a same-day change
charge of $75.00 (plus taxes) per direction per passenger,
however the passenger shall not be required to pay the
difference in fare.
o On “PorterClassic Flexible” tickets between
Toronto-Montreal or Toronto-Ottawa, “Flexible” tickets shall
be subject to a same-day change charge of $75.00 (plus
taxes) per direction per passenger, however the passenger
shall not be required to pay the difference in fare.
o On “PorterClassic Flexible” tickets between
Toronto-Newark, same-day at-airport changes to an earlier
flight are available without a change charge, and the
passenger shall not be required to pay the difference in
fare. Same-day changes to a later flight the same day
shall be subject to a $75.00 change charge (plus taxes)
per direction per passenger, however the passenger shall
not be required to pay the difference in fare.
● Same-day, “PorterClassic Freedom”: same-day changes are
available without a change charge, and the passenger shall not be
required to pay the difference in fare.
● Same-day, “PorterReserve Navigate”: same-day changes are
available without a change charge, and the passenger shall not be
required to pay the difference in fare.
● Same-day, “PorterReserve Ultimate”: same-day changes are
available without a change charge, and the passenger shall not be
required to pay the difference in fare.
*Same-day changes cannot be made when a Porter interline partner airline is
operating part of your itinerary.
In all cases, the fares of passengers who fail to show up for their flight and do not
otherwise cancel their reservation or change their reservation by one hour
prior to scheduled departure shall be non-refundable and non-creditable
towards future flights.
If you are traveling on a non-refundable ticket, Porter will be unable to make
exceptions in the event of an unexpected trip cancellation or medical
emergency. We recommend the purchase of travel insurance.
(d) For all itineraries including any origin or destination in Europe, change
fees are as follows:
● “PorterClassic Basic” tickets are non-refundable and cannot be
changed or cancelled.
● “PorterClassic Standard” tickets are non-refundable and subject to
a $150.00 change/cancellation charge (plus taxes) per direction
per passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus taxes).
● “PorterClassic Flexible” tickets are non-refundable and may be
changed or cancelled at no charge prior to day of travel, or if made
on day of travel for a change/cancellation charge of $75.00 (plus
taxes) per direction per passenger, plus the difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterClassic Freedom” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterReserve Navigate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
● “PorterReserve Ultimate” tickets: Changes are permitted at no
charge, subject only to payment of any difference in fare (plus
taxes).
7. In addition to the standard ticket change and cancellation charges described
above, Porter offers a 24-hour refundability option on all fare types. You may
cancel your booking for a full refund for up to 24 hours after completion of
purchase, either online or by calling the Porter Call Centre at (888) 619-8622.
Please note that this refundability option is available only to flights booked at
least 7 days prior to departure.
8. For passengers who have purchased PorterClassic Basic, Standard or Flexible
fares, a first checked bag meeting our size and weight requirements is subject to
charges from $27.50-$126.50 CAD/USD, a second bag for $50-$258.75, and
subsequent bags to charges from $100-$258.75 CAD/USD (plus applicable
taxes), depending on the passenger’s fare class, origin and destination, and
whether the passenger pays the fee at the time of booking, otherwise in advance,
at the check-in counter or at the gate, as set out in the applicable fare rule.
Items listed above are permitted up to 23 kg (50 lb) each. Each bag weighing
between 23 kg (50 lb) and 32 kg (70 lb) is charged an additional fee of $100-$115
CAD/USD, plus applicable taxes, per direction. No single piece can weigh more
than 32 kg (70 lb). These restrictions apply to all fare classes.
For all fare classes (PorterClassic Basic, Standard, Flexible and Freedom, and
PorterReserve Navigate and Ultimate, any single piece measuring more than 158
cm (62 in) total dimension (the sum of the length, width and height) is charged
$100-$115 CAD/USD per direction.
If a bag is both overweight and oversized, the $100-$115 fee is charged only
once.
No overweight or oversized charge is applied for 3rd and subsequent bags.
For all fares other than PorterClassic Basic fares, you may also carry on board
one standard carry-on bag with maximum dimensions of 23 x 40 x 55cm (9 x 16 x
22in) and on all fares including Basic, one business/personal article with
maximum dimensions 16 x 33 x 43cm (6 x 13 x 17in) each weighing no more
than 9kg (20lbs). It is recommended that documents and medication be packed
in your carry-on baggage, as Porter will not be responsible for their loss, damage
or delay.
For additional information, please refer to the Baggage Information section at
www.flyporter.com/en/travel-information/baggage.
9. With the exception of service animals, pet travel is restricted to house cats and
small dogs that can comfortably maneuver inside an approved carrier during
flight. For operational and comfort reasons, Porter limits the number of pet
carriers allowed in the cabin to two at any one time. No pets are allowed in the
cargo hold.
Please contact the Call Centre to confirm reservation availability for your pet on
your desired flight prior to booking your own ticket.
For safety reasons, dangerous articles must not be packed in checked or
carry-on baggage. The carrier will not accept fragile, valuable or perishable
articles including money, jewelry, cameras, video and electronic equipment,
silverware, negotiable instruments, business documents, samples, medications,
paintings, antiques, furs, manuscripts or similar items in checked baggage or
when otherwise placed in the care of the carrier.
Carrier reserves the right to refuse carriage of any persons or of any goods or baggage,
in accordance with the applicable provisions of carrier’s tariffs, rules or regulations, or
otherwise in accordance with the law. You may be required to present the credit card
used to purchase your ticket at check-in.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
OVERBOOKING NOTICE
Airline flights may be overbooked, and there is a slight chance that a seat will not be
available on a flight for which a person has a confirmed reservation. If the flight is
overbooked, no one will be denied a seat until airline personnel first ask for volunteers
willing to give up their reservation in exchange for a payment of the airline's choosing. If
there are not enough volunteers, the airline will deny boarding to other persons in
accordance with its boarding priority. With few exceptions, persons denied boarding
involuntarily are entitled to compensation. (Please refer to the relevant Porter Tariff for
further details.)
NOTICE OF BAGGAGE LIABILITY LIMITATIONS
Liability for loss, delay or damage to baggage is limited unless a higher value is declared
in advance and additional charges are paid. Porter’s liability for lost, damaged or
delayed baggage is limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights (an international currency
currently equivalent to approximately $2400 CAD) per passenger, plus the refund of any
baggage fees for the lost/damaged/delayed baggage. (For complete details, please
consult Porter’s domestic or transborder Tariff.)
Additional protection can usually be obtained by purchasing insurance from a private
company. Such insurance is not affected by any limitation of the carrier's liability under
the Convention or such special contracts of carriage. For further information, please
consult your airline or insurance company representative.
CONDITIONS OF CONTRACT
1. As used in this contract, "ticket" means, in the case of an electronic ticket, of
which these conditions and the notices form part, "carriage" is equivalent to
"transportation", "carrier" means all air carriers that carry or undertake to carry
the passenger or his baggage hereunder or perform any other service incidental
to such air carriage, "electronic ticket" means the itinerary/receipt issued by or on
behalf of carrier, the electronic coupons and, if applicable, a boarding document.
2. Carriage hereunder is subject to the rules and limitations relating to liability set
out in the carrier’s tariff.
3. To the extent not in conflict with the foregoing, carriage and other services
performed by the carrier are subject to: (i) provisions contained in this ticket, (ii)
applicable tariffs, (iii) carrier's conditions of carriage and related regulations which
are made part hereof (and are available on application at the offices of carrier).
4. Carrier's name may be abbreviated in the ticket, the full name and its
abbreviation being set forth in carrier's tariffs, conditions of carriage, regulations
or timetables; carrier's address shall be the airport of departure shown opposite
the first abbreviation of carrier's name in the ticket; the agreed stopping places
are those places set forth in this ticket or as shown in carrier's timetables as
scheduled stopping places on the passenger's route; carriage to be performed
hereunder by several successive carriers is regarded as a single operation.
5. Any exclusion or limitation of liability of carrier shall apply to and be for the benefit
of agents, servants and representatives of carrier and any person whose aircraft
is used by carrier for carriage and its agents, servants and representatives.
6. Checked baggage will be delivered to the bearer of the baggage check. In case
of damage to baggage, a complaint must be made in writing to the carrier
forthwith after discovery of damage and, at the latest, within 7 days from receipt;
in case of delay, complaint must be made within 21 days from date the baggage
was delivered. In all other cases, including loss, complaints must be made within
21 days from the date the passenger’s transportation stopped.
7. This ticket is good for carriage for one year from date of issue, except as
otherwise provided in this ticket, in carrier's tariffs, conditions of carriage, or
related regulations. The fare for carriage hereunder is subject to change prior to
commencement of carriage. Carriers may refuse transportation if the applicable
fare has not been paid. Provided the original booking is cancelled prior to two
hours before the original flight departure, the value of the unused ticket, less
applicable change fees, can be applied to a ticket for travel completed within 12
months from the date of original ticket issuance. Credit may be applied to base
fare, airline surcharges, change fees, and government taxes and fees. Credit can
be used one time only. Any residual value left from its use is forfeited. Bookings
using credit must be in the name of the owner of the credit. Credit may be
transferred to another traveler one time only, while maintaining the original
expiration date.
8. Carrier undertakes to use its best efforts to carry the passenger and baggage
with reasonable dispatch. Times shown in timetables or elsewhere are not
guaranteed and form no part of this contract. Carrier may without notice
substitute alternate carriers or aircraft, and may alter or omit stopping places
shown on the ticket in case of necessity. Schedules are subject to change without
notice. Carrier assumes no responsibility for making connections.
9. Passengers shall comply with Government travel requirements, present exit,
entry and other required documents and arrive at the airport by time fixed by the
carrier or, if no time is fixed, early enough to complete departure procedures.
10. No agent, servant or representative of carrier has authority to alter, modify or
waive any provision of this contract.