 Contact information Read instructions on this website: https://rppa-appr.ca/eng/air-travel-complaints

Home
Baggage
Delayed, lost or damaged baggage
Delayed, lost or damaged baggage
We are committed to doing our best to deliver your baggage on time and understand the inconvenience of having a bag misplaced or damaged.
Use the options below to create a new baggage report, check the status of an existing baggage report, submit a request for reimbursement or to locate items left on board.
CREATE LOST, DELAYED OR DAMAGED BAGGAGE REPORT﻿ CHECK STATUS OR MANAGE EXISTING BAGGAGE REPORT
SUBMIT REQUEST FOR REIMBURSEMENT LOCATE ITEMS LEFT ON BOARD
Delayed baggage
Here is what to do if your baggage doesn’t arrive with you:
OPTION 1
Create a baggage report
Create a baggage report within 12 hours of arriving at your destination. Provide your contact information, a description of your baggage and any other information that would help us to locate your bag.  Once you submit your report you will receive email updates on our progress.
Create Lost, delayed or damaged baggage report﻿ Check status of existing baggage report
OPTION 2
See a Baggage Services Agent
See a Baggage Services Agent at the arrival airport (select airports only). An agent will create a delayed baggage report for you and advise you of the next steps.
OPTION 3
Chat with our digital travel assistant, Juliet
Our digital travel assistant, Juliet, can also help answer your questions. Look for the icon in the bottom right corner of your screen to start a chat. 
Interim expenses for delayed bags
Itemized receipts are required to be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred as a direct result of your delayed baggage.
For flights within the America's, you may be entitled to an amount up to $100 CAD/USD for the first 48 hours while your baggage is delayed. After 48 hours, you may be entitled to a further $150 for a total of $250. The foregoing does not limit a passenger's rights to claim damages, if any, under the applicable convention or under the law.
For flights into Europe, you will be reimbursed up to the equivalent of $100 CAD in either Euros or GBP.
For out-of-pocket expenses related to a delayed or damaged baggage incident within our control, you may submit a request to WestJet for reimbursement.
Submit request for reimbursement
Compensation for lost bags
If your baggage is deemed lost, or if the baggage is lost for more than 21 days or is damaged, we will reimburse the applicable fees for that baggage. WestJet's liability for lost and damaged baggage is limited to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights (approximately $2,300 CAD) per passenger, unless a higher value was declared in advance.
Damaged baggage
If your baggage was damaged:
OPTION 1
Create a baggage report
Create a baggage report within 5 days of arriving at your destination. A member of our Central Baggage Services team will contact you to discuss resolution options.
Create Lost, delayed or damaged baggage report
OPTION 2
See a Baggage Services Agent
Bring your damaged luggage to the baggage services office in your arrival airport within 7 days of receiving it.
WestJet's limitation of liability as a result of damage is (including incidental expenses) up to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per guest (approximately $2,300 CAD) and you will be reimbursed for any applicable baggage fee paid.
Please review our domestic tariff, rule 120 (Limitation of Liability) or international tariff, rule 60 (Limitation of liability for baggage or goods), for more information.
For more information about your passenger rights see below or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency website or review the Air Passenger Protection Regulations.
Dangerous goods
Items identified as dangerous goods and removed from checked baggage are held by WestJet for up to a maximum of 72 hours pending storage availability. Items not recovered after 72 hours will be disposed of.
If you experienced an error while creating a baggage report or spoke to a Baggage Services Agent at the airport and were not given a file number, please contact us.
Helpful Links
Canadian passenger rights
Airport terminal information
Our airline partners
Delay and cancellation claims
Denied boarding
Packing checklist
Submit expenses
Travelling with musical instruments
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
Home
Flight interruptions and passenger rights
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
We know that any type of interruption to your schedule can be challenging and inconvenient. To minimize any inconvenience, we will do our best to keep you informed, and get you on your way as quickly and safely as possible.
WestJet and WestJet Encore by policy do not overbook flights, a common practice in the airline industry. However, there may be times where substitutions of aircraft or seat configuration changes are made for operational requirements. As a result, a larger or smaller aircraft or different seating configuration may be used for your flight. Either way, we will ensure that the impact on your travel is minimized.
If you are denied boarding, your flight is delayed or cancelled for at least two hours, or your baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights please complete the Canadian Passenger Rights Contact Form or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency’s website.
Learn more about flight interruptions to flights departing, arriving or diverted through the United States.
Tarmac delays
A Tarmac Delay is when your flight is ready to take off (and the doors of the aircraft are closed) or your flight has just landed (and the doors of the aircraft are closed), but you are kept waiting in the plane. We will do what we can to make you comfortable during a Tarmac Delay, including the following:

1. WestJet will provide you with access to working lavatories, proper ventilation and heating or cooling, food and drink, and the ability to communicate with people outside the plane free of charge, when feasible (“Tarmac Delay Services”). If you require urgent medical assistance during a tarmac delay, we will take all reasonable steps to facilitate access to medical assistance.

After a 3 hour tarmac delay at an airport in Canada, the plane will return to the gate so you can disembark if safe to do so. A plane can stay on the tarmac for up to 45 additional minutes, if it is likely that it will take off within that period and we are able to continue providing the same Tarmac Delay Services, when feasible.

2. This short extension is to ensure that the plane can take off if there is a reasonable prospect of this occurring – so that you can reach your final destination without the inconvenience of further delay or a flight cancellation.

If it is not likely that the plane can take off within the additional 45 minute window, the plane will return to the gate, unless it is prevented for reasons related to safety, security, customs control or air traffic control.

Depending on the circumstances, it may not be possible for WestJet to allow you to disembark from the aircraft during a Tarmac Delay, for various reasons, including but not limited to concerns related to safety, security, or due to directions by Air Traffic Control or Customs Control.

If the plane returns to the gate for disembarking because of a tarmac delay, disembarking priority will be available to passengers with disabilities and their support person, service animal or emotional support animal, if any, upon request and when feasible.
Schedule changes
Changes to your flight schedule
Schedule changes are adjustments to flight times and destinations. Unfortunately, even though we prefer not to make schedule changes, they do happen. Generally, schedule changes are made because of adjustments to air traffic routes, airport requests, construction at airport facilities, security constraints, market forces, partner airline schedules and so on.

Should you experience a schedule change, WestJet will make every effort to contact you in a timely manner (via email) to advise you of a change. The email will contain information about your old flight itinerary and your new flight itinerary. Depending on the magnitude of the schedule change, the email may also include the option to accept the change, decline the change (and request a refund), or instructions on how to make a change to your new flight itinerary.

For flights booked directly with WestJet (westjet.com, contact centre, etc.), Please refer to the chart below, which displays how WestJet contacts guests in most schedule change situations.

WestJet schedule change communication	Schedule change criteria
One (1) schedule change email will be sent 90 days prior to departure
Flight is departing no more than one hour later than the original flight.
Flight is departing no more than 15 minutes earlier than the original flight.
Departure time remains the same but connection times are different (up to three hours).
Flight time remains the same but flight number has changed.
Up to four (4) schedule change emails will be sent starting 90 days prior to departure
Phone call if there is no guest action resulting from emails, or if the schedule change requires alternate planning directly with the guest (including WestJet Vacations or Group Bookings)
Flight is departing 16 to 30 minutes prior than the original flight.
Flight is departing 1 to 3 hours later on the same day.
Direct or non-stop flight was changed to a connecting flight.
Up to four (4) schedule change emails will be sent within 72 hours of when the change has been made
Phone call if there is no guest action resulting from emails, or if the schedule change requires alternate planning directly with the guest (including WestJet Vacations or Group Bookings)
Flight is departing more than 3 hours later on the same day.
Flight now has an overnight connection.
Flight is departing more than 30 minutes prior to original departure.
Communication
We will attempt to notify you as soon as possible of flight delays and cancellations. When we communicate any delay or cancellation, we will inform you of:

the reason for the delay or cancellation
compensation our guests may be entitled to
standards of treatment
recourse available against WestJet, when applicable
If we receive new information regarding a flight delay or cancellation, we will communicate it to you as soon as possible. We will provide updates every 30 minutes using the methods below until a new departure time is set or alternative travel arrangements have been made.

Please note, if you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them.

There are many ways that we communicate with you so you can stay informed of changes to your trip:

Before you arrive at the airport
Via email, as long as you have provided WestJet with your WestJet Rewards ID or email address. Otherwise, we will not be able to send you email notifications about your flight status or itinerary, or messages may be sent to your travel arranger instead.
If you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them, as you may not receive direct communications from WestJet, or you may receive modified version of these communications.
On our website through flight status or travel advisories. To receive an up-to-date email confirmation, please retrieve your itinerary.
Download the WestJet app and enable your app notifications to stay informed on-the-go.

At the airport
during check-in
by the departure and arrival screens located throughout airport terminals, where feasible
announcements at the airport
updates provided every 30 minutes until a new departure time is set or whenever new information is available
On the aircraft
announcements every 30 minutes (when safe for our pilots to do so)
We strongly recommend that you ensure you, or your travel arranger, has provided us with your WestJet Rewards ID, an email address, or current phone number.

You can also review our domestic tariff, specifically rule 90: Schedule Irregularities. Delays, cancellations and compensation.

Flying with a non-WestJet operated airline?
Policies for communicating flight delays and cancellations can be different between airlines. If you’re travelling on a flight operated by a carrier other than WestJet, we recommend that you visit the airline’s website to learn about their policies, fees and terms and conditions of carriage.

If you have concerns about how the delay or cancellation of your flight was communicated, the airline that operated the affected flight will be best equipped to deal with your concerns.
Operating carrier
You can view which airline is operating your flight when you book online, on your itinerary receipt or on your boarding pass/ticket.

When flying with an operating carrier other than WestJet, it’s a good idea to familiarize yourself with the fees and policies of the airline that is operating your flight, as each airline has its own terms and conditions of carriage.

If issues occur on a non-WestJet operated flight, for example, relating to denied boarding, flight delays or cancellations, lost or damaged baggage, the airline that operated the affected flight will be best equipped to deal with your concerns. This does not limit your ability to make a claim with another carrier pursuant to the APPR.
Expenses
Should you incur out-of-pocket expenses for a controllable flight delay or cancellation, you may submit a request to WestJet for reimbursement. WestJet will review requests for reasonable expenses that meet certain criteria and supporting, itemized receipts will be required. If approved, you will be reimbursed with cash by electronic payment or with WestJet dollars deposited into your WestJet Rewards account. It’s your choice.

Our general guidelines are:

Hotel costs: in situations where WestJet was unable to secure a hotel room, or you did not accept the hotel re-accommodation option WestJet has offered (and you book your own hotel), WestJet will reimburse you up to $150.00 CAD ($200.00 CAD for non-Canadian destinations) per night/per reservation. In-room movie costs, tips/gratuities and long distance telephone charges will be excluded.
Meals: in the unlikely event meal vouchers mentioned above are not available during your controllable delay, we will reimburse you to a maximum of $45 CAD per day/per guest. Alcoholic beverages and tips/gratuities will be excluded.
Transportation: if transportation was not available by WestJet, we will reimburse the cost incurred for transportation between the airport and the hotel.
Please note, WestJet does not reimburse expenses for cellular roaming charges, missed entertainment/sporting/excursion events, lost wages or missed connections to non-partner airlines or cruises.

These guidelines do not limit or reduce your right to claim damages, if any, under the applicable convention or under the law.

Third party bookings or airline partner flights
If you’re travelling on a flight operated by one of our partner airlines, or you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them directly as they are in a better position to make the appropriate arrangement for re-accommodation or travel options.  If your flight departs within 24 hours you can contact your third party agent or contact WestJet directly.

For further detailed information please see rule 90: Schedule Irregularities of our domestic tariff.

To submit a request, please fill out and submit the online reimbursement request form in full. One of our Guest Support specialists will review the request and process it, if approved. Submit expenses from a disrupted flight
Reasons
Issue within the airport facilities
When the airport experiences an issue that either limits operations or makes it unsafe to operate (e.g. inoperative baggage systems or gates). 


Air traffic control restriction
When the airport experiences an air traffic control restriction (e.g. routing or airspace restrictions).

Crew availability
When there is an issue with crew availability.


Crew coming from a delayed flight that was outside of the airline's control
When flight crew is coming from a delayed flight that was outside of the airline's control.


Crew coming from a delayed flight that was within the airline's control
When flight crew is coming from a delayed flight that was within the airline's control.


Wait times with customs and immigration
When a delay is caused by wait times with customs and immigration.


Damage to the aircraft during the flight
When there is damage to the aircraft during the flight (e.g. bird or lightning strike).


Issue outside of the airline's control after leaving the gate
When there is an issue outside of the airline's control after leaving the gate while still on the ground.


Damage to the aircraft while taxiing
When there is damage to the aircraft after departing the gate while still on the ground.


Incident involving a guest (non-medical)
When there is a non-medical incident involving a guest


WestJet IT system
When an issue with WestJet software (not related to the aircraft) results in the flight being delayed and/or cancelled.


Non WestJet IT system
When an issue with non-WestJet software (not related to the aircraft) results in the flight being delayed and/or cancelled.


Operational decision for everyone’s safety
When WestJet decides to delay and/or cancel the flight to assist other guests impacted by other flight disruptions (e.g. holding for connecting guests).


Change in aircraft
When a change in aircraft occurs.


Delays with ground handling or service
When there are delays due to ground handling or services (e.g. baggage handling, catering).


Required safety procedures
Delays occurring due to safety checks and operational procedures.


Security related incident
When a delay is caused by a security breach or investigation (e.g. a restricted item made it past the security checkpoint).


Scheduled aircraft maintenance
When scheduled maintenance on the aircraft requires additional time to complete which causes the flight to be delayed and/or cancelled.


Unscheduled aircraft maintenance
When identified issues cause unscheduled maintenance on the aircraft causing the flight to be delayed and/or cancelled.


Weather along the aircraft's route
When weather along the aircraft's route causes the flight to be delayed and/or cancelled.


Weather in your destination
When weather in the flight's destination causes the flight to be delayed and/or cancelled.


Weather in your departing city
When weather in the flight's city of origin causes the flight to be delayed and/or cancelled.


Strike or work stoppage
When a strike or work stoppage by WestJet or a WestJet contracted group causes a delay or cancellation.


Incident involving a guest
When there is an incident involving a guest (e.g. medical situation).
Delays and cancellations
Though we always strive to be the most on time airline in Canada, delays and cancellations happen for reasons:
Outside WestJet’s control
Within WesJet’s control, but required for safety
Within WestJet’s control
EU Fixed Value Delay between three and four hours
In line with guidelines set out by the European Air Passengers Rights Regulation (261/2004), you may be entitled to Delay between three and four hours for an interruption in your travel plans. Delay between three and four hours amounts are based on the length of the delay and the distance of the flight, to a maximum of 600€ (or the cash equivalent in CAD or USD). Flights departing the European Union (EU) which are delayed may qualify for the following Delay between three and four hours values:

Distance of flight	Delay under three hours	Delay between three and four hours	Delay over four hours
Less than 1500 km

€0

€250

€250

Between 1500-3500 km

€0

€400

€400

Greater than 3500 km

€0

€300

€600



Please see our EU alternate dispute resolution process or International and transborder tariff for more information.

Third party bookings or airline partner flights
If you’re travelling on a flight operated by one of our partner airlines, or you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them directly as they are in a better position to make the appropriate arrangement for re-accommodation or travel options. If your flight departs within 24 hours you can contact your third party agent or contact WestJet directly.

Submit the European Air Passengers Rights Regulation form
What happens when your flight is delayed or cancelled depends on the circumstances of your flight interruption? Find what you can expect for all situations below.
Outside WestJet’s control
Your WestJet flight may be delayed or cancelled due to reasons outside our control. For example, a bird strike may have occurred, a guest may have a medical issue or weather events like snowstorms or hurricanes may interfere with the safe operation of your flight.

If your WestJet flight is delayed for three (3) hours or more, or cancelled due to reasons outside of our control, we will:

Provide a confirmed reservation for no additional charge:
on the next available WestJet or WestJet Encore flight or on a flight operated by a non-WestJet airline, if the next available flight is travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination and departs within forty-eight (48) hours of your original departure time
OR
if a reservation cannot be confirmed as in the point above, we will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located, or another airport that is within a reasonable distance of that airport, to your original destination (transportation will be provided from the airport where you are located to the new departure airport, if applicable)
e.g., neighbouring city to Hamilton is Toronto
To the extent possible, provide comparable travel arrangements to the original ticket and will not ask you to pay additional fees if the alternative travel arrangements are in a higher class of service. If the class of service is lower than was to be provided on your original flight, WestJet will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service
If the alternative travel arrangements do not meet your needs, WestJet will refund the unused portion of the ticket
If you are no longer at your original airport of departure and your travel no longer serves a purpose because of the delay, WestJet will refund the ticket and provide a confirmed reservation for a flight that is to your original departure airport and accommodates your travel needs. Refunds will be paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.
A delay or cancellation that directly results from an earlier uncontrollable delay or cancellation is also considered to be an uncontrollable delay or cancellation when WestJet has taken all reasonable measures to lessen the impact of the earlier delay or cancellation.

Third-party bookings or airline partner flights
If you’re travelling on a flight operated by one of our partner airlines, or you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them directly as they are in a better position to make the appropriate arrangement for re-accommodation or travel options. If your flight departs within 24 hours you can contact your third-party agent or contact WestJet directly.


Within WestJet’s control, but required for safety
Situations surrounding flight disruptions can be complex and have multiple causes. Carriers are required to inform you of the reason for a flight disruption. Please be aware that the reasons provided for a flight disruption may change as the situation evolves, new issues arise, or new information is received

What happens when your flight is delayed or cancelled depends on the circumstances of your flight interruption? Find what you can expect for all situations below.

Provide a confirmed reservation for no additional charge:
on the next available WestJet or WestJet Encore flight or on a flight operated by a non-WestJet airline, if the next available flight is travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination and departs within nine (9) hours of the originally scheduled departure time
OR
if a reservation cannot be confirmed as in the point above, we will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination that departs within 48 hours of the originally scheduled departure time
OR
if a reservation cannot be confirmed as in the point above, we will provide transportation to another airport that is within a reasonable distance from the airport at which you are located and a confirmed reservation for a flight that is operated by another airline on any reasonable air route from that other airport to your original destination.
To the extent possible, provide comparable travel arrangements to the original ticket and will not ask you to pay additional fees if the alternative travel arrangements are in a higher class of service. If the class of service is lower than was to be provided on your original flight, WestJet will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service
If the alternative travel arrangements do not meet your needs, WestJet will refund the unused portion of the ticket. Please request a callback and we would be happy to assist you.
Standards of treatment
If you are informed of a delay less than 12 hours before the departure time indicated on your original ticket and you have waited 2 hours after the departure time that is indicated on your original ticket, WestJet will provide you with food and drink in reasonable quantities and access to a means of communication, when feasible.
WestJet will also provide you with hotel or other comparable accommodation, as well as transportation to and from the accommodation, taking into consideration your location, if it appears that you will be required to wait overnight for your original flight or a reserved flight as part of alternative travel arrangements. Some or all of these benefits may not be provided if providing them would further delay your travel.

A delay or cancellation that directly results from an earlier controllable delay or cancellation but required for safety purposes is also considered to be a controllable delay or cancellation but required for safety purposes when WestJet has taken all reasonable measures to lessen the impact of the earlier delay or cancellation.

Third-party bookings or airline partner flights
If you’re travelling on a flight operated by one of our partner airlines, or you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them directly as they are in a better position to make the appropriate arrangement for re-accommodation or travel options. If your flight departs within 24 hours you can contact your third-party agent or contact WestJet directly.


Within WestJet’s control
Your WestJet flight can be delayed or cancelled for reasons within our control.

If your WestJet flight is delayed for three (3) hours or more, or cancelled due to reasons within our control, we will:

Provide a confirmed reservation for no additional charge:
on the next available WestJet or WestJet Encore flight or on a flight operated by a non-WestJet airline, if the next available flight is travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination and departs within nine (9) hours of the originally scheduled departure time
if a reservation cannot be confirmed as in the point above, we will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination that departs within 48 hours of the originally scheduled departure time
if a reservation cannot be confirmed as in the point above, we will provide transportation to another airport that is within a reasonable distance from the airport at which you are located and a confirmed reservation for a flight that is operated by another airline on any reasonable air route from that other airport to your original destination
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service
If the alternative travel arrangements do not meet your needs, WestJet will refund the unused portion of the ticket
If you are no longer at your original airport of departure and your travel no longer serves a purpose because of the delay, WestJet will refund the ticket and provide a confirmed reservation for a flight that is to your original departure airport and accommodates your travel needs. Refunds will be paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.
Standards of treatment
If you are informed of a delay less than 12 hours before the departure time indicated on your original ticket and you have waited 2 hours after the departure time that is indicated on your original ticket, WestJet will provide you with food and drink in reasonable quantities and access to a means of communication, when feasible.
WestJet will also provide you with hotel or other comparable accommodation, as well as transportation to and from the accommodation, taking into consideration your location, if it appears that you will be required to wait overnight for your original flight or a reserved flight as part of alternative travel arrangements. Some or all of these benefits may not be provided if providing them would further delay your travel.

Compensation
If you are informed 14 days or less before the departure time shown on your original ticket that the arrival of your flight at the destination indicated on your ticket will be delayed, compensation will be provided as follows, if you file a request for compensation within 1 year from the day on which the flight delay occurred:
Length of Delay	Compensation
3 to 6 hours

$400.00

6 to 9 hours

$700.00

9 hours or more

$1,000.00



If you are informed 14 days or less before the departure time shown on your original ticket that the arrival of your flight at the destination indicated on your ticket will be delayed and your ticket is refunded, we will compensate you in the amount of $400.00, if compensation is requested by you.
Third-party bookings or airline partner flights
If you’re travelling on a flight operated by one of our partner airlines, or you booked your trip through a third-party such as a travel agent, airline partner, travel site or AIR MILES®, we recommend that you contact them directly as they are in a better position to make the appropriate arrangement for re-accommodation or travel options. If your flight departs within 24 hours you can contact your third-party agent or contact WestJet directly.
What happens when your flight is delayed or cancelled depends on the circumstances of your flight interruption? Find what you can expect for all situations below.
Show all
Outside WestJet’s control

Within WestJet’s control, but required for safety



Within WestJet’s control







Flight interruptions and passenger rights
Denied boarding
Denied boarding
We do not overbook our flights. However, in certain circumstances we may have to deny you boarding.
A denied boarding occurs when you are unable to board a flight because the number of available seats on the flight is less than the number of passengers who have checked in by the required time, hold a confirmed reservation, have valid travel documentation, and are present at the boarding gate at the required boarding time.
Uncontrollable denied boarding
There may be instances where we may have to deny you boarding due to reasons outside of our control.

An “uncontrollable denied boarding”, includes but is not limited to a denied boarding due to:

meteorological conditions or natural disasters that make the safe operation of the aircraft impossible (in the judgment of WestJet or the pilot in command)
instructions from Air Traffic Control, airport operation issues
a medical emergency
war or political instability
illegal acts or sabotage
“a notice to airmen” which affects flights operations
a security threat
a collision with wildlife
a labour disruption within WestJet or within an essential service
a manufacturing defect in an aircraft that reduces the safety of passengers as identified by the manufacturer or a competent authority
an order or instruction from an official of a state or a law enforcement agency or from a person responsible for airport security


In the event that you have been denied boarding due to reasons outside of our control, we will:

Provide a confirmed reservation on the next available flight operated by WestJet or on a flight operated by an airline with which WestJet has a commercial agreement, if the next available flight is travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination and departs within 48 hours of the departure time that is shown on your original ticket.
If WestJet cannot provide the confirmed reservation set out in (1) above, WestJet will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located, or another airport that is within a reasonable distance of that airport, to your original destination (transportation will be provided from the airport where you are located to the new departure airport, if applicable).
WestJet will, to the extent possible, provide comparable travel arrangements to the original ticket and will not ask you to pay additional fees if the alternative travel arrangements are in a higher class of service. If the class of service is lower than was to be provided on your original flight, WestJet will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket.
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.

Controllable denied boarding
There may be instances where we may have to deny you boarding due to reasons within our control. This is a “controllable denied boarding”.

There may also be instances where we may have to deny you boarding due to reasons within our control but required for safety purposes (where it is required by law in order to reduce risk to passenger safety and includes required safety decisions made within the authority of the pilot of the aircraft or a decision made through a safety management system to ensure aviation safety or the safety of the public, but does not include scheduled aircraft maintenance). This is a “controllable denied boarding but required for safety purposes”.

Denying a passenger boarding because there are not enough seats is not the same as refusing to transport them, for example:

for health, safety, or security reasons
for failing to follow carrier rules or instructions
because a passenger does not have appropriate travel documents
the passenger has failed to respect check-in and departure gate cut-off time limits
For more information please see Rule 95 within WestJet’s domestic tariff.


Communicating about denied boarding
When we communicate a denied boarding, we will give you:

the reason for the denied boarding
information related to compensation you may be entitled to
information regarding any required standard of treatment that you are entitled to
information regarding avenues of recourse available to you with WestJet and/or the Canadian Transportation Agency, when applicable
If we receive new information regarding a denied boarding, we will communicate it to you as soon as feasible and we will provide updates to you every 30 minutes using the methods set out below until a new departure time is set or alternative travel arrangements have been made.


Controllable (within WestJet’s control) denied boarding but required for safety purposes
In the event that we have to deny boarding due to reasons within our control but required for safety purposes, we will:

Not deny you boarding unless we have asked all passengers if any of them are willing to give up their seat. We may offer a benefit in exchange for a passenger willingly giving up their seat.
If denial of boarding is necessary, we will select passengers who will be denied boarding, giving priority to unaccompanied minors, a person with a disability and their support person, service animal, or emotional support animal, if any, a passenger who is travelling with a family member, and a passenger who was previously denied boarding on the same ticket, in that order.
If you have been denied boarding, WestJet will provide you with a confirmed reservation on the next available flight operated by WestJet or on a flight operated by an airline with which WestJet has a commercial agreement, if the next available flight travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination, and departs within 9 hours of the departure time that is shown on your original ticket.
If WestJet cannot provide the confirmed reservation set out in (3) above, WestJet will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination that departs within 48 hours of the departure time that is shown on your original ticket.
If WestJet cannot provide the confirmed reservation set out in (4) above, WestJet will provide transportation to another airport that is within a reasonable distance of the airport at which you are located and will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight that is operated by any airline on any reasonable air route from that other airport to your original destination.
If you have been denied boarding, we will, before you board a flight reserved as part of an alternate travel arrangement, provide you with food and drink in reasonable quantities and access to a means of communication, when feasible.
WestJet will also provide you with hotel or other comparable accommodation, as well as transportation to and from the accommodation, taking into consideration your location, if it appears that you will be required to wait overnight for your original flight or a reserved flight as part of alternative travel arrangements. Some or all of these benefits may not be provided if providing them would further delay your travel.
WestJet will, to the extent possible, provide comparable travel arrangements to the original ticket and will not ask you to pay additional fees if the alternative travel arrangements are in a higher class of service. If the class of service is lower than was to be provided on your original flight, WestJet will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket.
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.
If the alternative travel arrangements do not meet your needs, WestJet will refund the unused portion of the ticket. However, if the disruption has caused the guest’s travel to no longer serve a purpose and the guest is no longer at the point of origin on their itinerary, WestJet will provide the guest with a confirmed reservation back to the point of origin on the ticket and refund the full amount of the ticket

Controllable (within WestJet’s control) denied boarding
In the event that we have to deny boarding due to reasons within our control, we will:

Not deny you boarding unless we have asked all passengers if any of them are willing to give up their seat. We may offer compensation in exchange for a passenger willingly giving up their seat.
If denial of boarding is necessary, we will select passengers who will be denied boarding, giving priority to unaccompanied minors, a person with a disability and their support person, service animal, or emotional support animal, if any, a passenger who is travelling with a family member, and a passenger who was previously denied boarding on the same ticket, in that order.
If you have been denied boarding, WestJet will provide you with a confirmed reservation on the next available flight operated by WestJet or on a flight operated by an airline with which WestJet has a commercial agreement, if the next available flight travelling on a reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination, and departs within 9 hours of the departure time that is shown on your original ticket.
If WestJet cannot provide the confirmed reservation set out in (3) above, WestJet will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight operated by any airline travelling on any reasonable air route from the airport at which you are located to your original destination that departs within 48 hours of the departure time that is shown on your original ticket.
If WestJet cannot provide the confirmed reservation set out in (4) above, WestJet will provide transportation to another airport that is within a reasonable distance of the airport at which you are located and will provide a confirmed reservation for a flight that is operated by another airline on any reasonable air route from that other airport to your original destination.
If you have been denied boarding, we will, before you board a flight reserved as part of an alternate travel arrangement, provide you with food and drink in reasonable quantities and access to a means of communication, when feasible.
WestJet will also provide you with hotel or other comparable accommodation, as well as transportation to and from the accommodation, taking into consideration your location, if it appears that you will be required to wait overnight for your original flight or a reserved flight as part of alternative travel arrangements. Some or all of these benefits may not be provided if providing them would further delay your travel.
WestJet will, to the extent possible, provide comparable travel arrangements to the original ticket and will not ask you to pay additional fees if the alternative travel arrangements are in a higher class of service. If the class of service is lower than was to be provided on your original flight, WestJet will refund the difference in the cost of the applicable portion of the ticket.
If you purchased any additional services in connection with your original flight and you did not receive those services on the alternate flight or you have paid for those services a second time, WestJet will provide you with a refund paid by the method used for the original payment and to the person who purchased the ticket or additional service.
If the alternative travel arrangements do not meet your needs, WestJet will refund the unused portion of the ticket. However, if the disruption has caused the guest’s travel to no longer serve a purpose and the guest is no longer at the point of origin on their itinerary, WestJet will provide the guest with a confirmed reservation back to the point of origin on the ticket and refund the full amount of the ticket.
If you have been denied boarding, WestJet will provide you with compensation in the amounts set out below as soon as operationally feasible, and no later than 48 hours after the denial of boarding. If we cannot provide you compensation prior to the boarding of a flight as part of alternate travel arrangements, and in all cases of denied boarding, we will provide you with written confirmation of what is owed as applicable. Compensation will be determined based on the estimated arrival time of the flight reserved as part of the alternate travel arrangements at the destination that is indicated on your ticket. Adjustment will be made to the amount of compensation if the expected time of arrival and the actual time of arrival is different, to reflect the compensation amount owed according to the actual time of arrival. An aircraft has arrived when it has opened one of its doors after it lands to allow passengers to leave the plane

Denied boarding compensation
Minimum Levels of Compensation
In the event that we have to deny boarding due to reasons within our control and not required for safety, the following compensation will be provided as soon as operationally feasible, and no later than 48 hours after the denial of boarding. If we cannot provide you compensation prior to the boarding of a flight as part of alternate travel arrangements, and in all cases of denied boarding, we will provide you with written confirmation of what is owed as applicable.

Compensation will be determined based on the estimated arrival time of the flight reserved, as part of the alternate travel arrangements at the destination that is indicated on your ticket. Adjustment will be made to the amount of compensation if the expected time of arrival and the actual time of arrival is different, to reflect the compensation amount owed according to the actual time of arrival. An aircraft has arrived when it has opened one of its doors after it lands to allow passengers to leave the plane.

Time of arrival	Compensation
less than 6 hours after the time of arrival indicated on the original ticket

$900

6 to 9 hours after the time of arrival indicated on the original ticket

$1,800

9 hours or more after the time of arrival indicated on the original ticket

$2,400
RELATED TO DENIED BOARDING
Flight interruptions and passenger rights
Canadian passenger rights
Domestic tariff
International tariff

Home
Flight interruptions and passenger rights
United States flight and service disruptions
United States flight and service disruptions
As we remain committed to providing a great guest experience, we've developed a plan in accordance with the Enhanced Protections for Airline Passengers U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations (14 CFR Part 259) to help us do so. The following details comprise our guest service plan for both WestJet and WestJet Encore operated flights. Should you incur out-of-pocket expenses for a flight delay or cancellation within our control, you may submit a request to WestJet for reimbursement.
Show all
Contingency planning for lengthy US tarmac delays
The following outlines our guest service plan in the event of delays, cancellations and diversion for flights departing, arriving or diverted to the U.S.

We remain committed to providing a great guest experience. Should a flight interruption occur, your safety and comfort remains our priority. The following plan has been developed in the event of an extended tarmac delay for flights in the U.S. This contingency plan has been developed in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation Enhanced Protections for Airline Passengers regulations (14 CFR Part 259).

Delays at the airport
If you have not yet boarded your flight and a delay caused by WestJet exceeds three (3) hours, we will issue you a food voucher. Likewise, if WestJet causes an overnight delay and you did not start your journey at the airport where the delay has occurred, we will provide you with a hotel voucher, airport transfers and food vouchers. Please note that we will only issue a maximum of three meal vouchers per guest, per day.

Flight status changes on the day of your flight (in effect for delays, cancellations or diversions)
We will inform you of changes to your flight's status within 30 minutes of the time we are notified of the change. This information will be available through our flight status tool or by contacting us. We also provide updates at the boarding gate area, and continue to provide updates every 30 minutes. Also, if you provided your email address or WestJet ID in your flight reservation you will be eligible to receive flight status notifications automatically via email. We will attempt to notify you should your flight be delayed 15 minutes or more, within 3 hours of your flight's scheduled departure.

On-board departure and arrival delays
During an extended delay on board the aircraft, we will provide you with:

Notifications beginning 30 minutes after the departure time (including any revised departure time that guests were notified about before boarding) and every 30 minutes thereafter to identify the reason for the delay and provide a tentative departure time.
Notifications every 30 minutes that you have the opportunity to disembark from the aircraft that is at the gate or another disembarkation area with the door open if the opportunity to disembark actually exists. If you choose to disembark you should be aware that you are doing so at your own discretion and the flight could depart at any time without you.
Functioning lavatory facilities.
Access to medical attention (if or when necessary).
Food and water. This is provided no later than two (2) hours after the aircraft leaves the gate (for departures) or touches down (for arrivals and diversions), unless the pilot-in-command deems that safety or security precludes such service. Depending on aircraft catering provisions adequate food may be a snack item.
Plan requirements
WestJet's contingency plan provides that guests will be given the opportunity to disembark a delayed flight within four (4) hours unless the pilot-in-command determines that a safety-related concern prevents the aircraft from returning to the gate or air traffic control advises that a return to the gate or disembarking at another location is not possible.

The plan also ensures that we have sufficient resources that meet the United States Department of Transportation's (U.S. DOT) requirements for extended tarmac delays in the United States, including diversions. WestJet's Operations Control Centre (OCC) is responsible for managing the plan and ensuring that it meets all required standards. WestJet's OCC will also handle oversight of the plan in the instance of an event and have coordinated implementation of the plan with airport authorities, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Transportation Security Administration at each U.S. airport that we serve, including diversion airports. WestJet customer service agents, flight operations personnel and inflight staff will carry out the plan at the airport and flight level.


Offering our lowest available fare
Whether you call us, book through our website or walk up to the WestJet counter at one of our airports, we'll always offer you our lowest available fare. We don't have minimum or maximum stay-over requirements and we quote our fares on a one-way basis including applicable taxes, fees and charges. For more information, please see our fares.


Allowing you to cancel within 24 hours of booking without a fee and providing a prompt refund
Within 24 hours of the original booking time, any changes you make to your booking will only be subject to any difference in fare. If you cancel your flight within 24 hours of the original booking, the full cost of your flight will be refunded to you in the original form of payment. If your travel was scheduled within seven (7) days of your booking, the full cost of your flight will be refunded to you in the form of a travel credit, except in the case of flights that are scheduled to depart within 24 hours of the time of booking (i.e., same-day flights). Your refund will be processed based on how your reservation was made, and the fare level you purchased. For details on how the refund will be processed, please see our service fees. Although we process all refund requests no more than seven business days after we receive a request, it may take your credit card company a little longer to credit your account. For cancellations to a booking purchased with cash at one of our airport locations, we will refund to cash when available or by cheque within 20 days after we receive a refund request. We will refund fees paid for unredeemed optional services due to an oversale situation or flight cancellation.


Disclosing your travel itinerary, other policies and information that may affect your travel
We will provide you with information on the policies and promises that affect your travel including:

Service fees
Taxes and fees
Our privacy policy
Our contracts of carriage

Details on our WestJet Rewards program
Our rules, restrictions, and redemption information is available here.


Our aircraft configuration
Information on our aircraft configuration is available through our agents at our airport locations, on our aircraft page, or by contacting us. We provide details about the location of the lavatories onboard, the seat width and the pitch of the seat (which is a fancy way of saying how much legroom you'll get).


Handling oversold flight situations
Unlike most airlines, our flights are not intentionally oversold. In the unlikely event that this does occur and we can no longer accommodate you on a flight to/from or within the United States, we will put you on the next available flight or offer you a WestJet Travel Credit or a refund of your fare. We will also provide a refund for any pre-paid optional/ancillary services lost due to a cancellation or overbooking.


Notifying you of flight delays, cancellations and diversions and how we mitigate inconveniences that result from these flight interruptions
We know that any type of interruption to your schedule is inconvenient. We strive to keep you informed, provide you with information and minimize the inconvenience.


Accommodating guests with special needs including tarmac delays
We're happy to provide additional service for our guests with special needs, including transportation to, from or between gates (by wheelchair or by WestJet folkswagon). From assistance at the airport, on our aircraft, boarding and deplaning to assistance during delays, cancellations or diversions, we will ensure that your needs are properly accommodated.


Delivering your baggage on time
We do our best to deliver your baggage on time — and understand the inconvenience that results when we don't. WestJet will make every effort to return mishandled baggage within 24 hours. We will also provide compensation for reasonable expenses related to delayed delivery, and reimbursing passengers for any fee to transport a lost bag. Please see our delayed, damage and/or missing baggage page for more information.


Ensuring good customer service from our code-share partners
We're proud to have agreements with our code-share partners that ensure you receive excellent service whenever you travel on a WestJet ticket. Information on our partner airlines' current policies and procedures can be accessed through a link to their website from our airline partners page.


Giving us feedback – good or bad
We appreciate hearing about your experience with us. If you would like to provide us with feedback, please see our contact us page.

We will do our best to acknowledge any written complaint within 30 days and to send a substantive response within 60 days.
U.S. Department of Transportation
For more information about your rights when travelling to, through or within the United States, please contact the U.S. Department of Transportation.