OPTION 1
Create a baggage report
Create a baggage report within 5 days of arriving at your destination. A member of our Central Baggage Services team will contact you to discuss resolution options.
Create Lost, delayed or damaged baggage report
OPTION 2
See a Baggage Services Agent
Bring your damaged luggage to the baggage services office in your arrival airport within 7 days of receiving it.
WestJet's limitation of liability as a result of damage is (including incidental expenses) up to 1,288 Special Drawing Rights per guest (approximately $2,300 CAD) and you will be reimbursed for any applicable baggage fee paid.
Please review our domestic tariff, rule 120 (Limitation of Liability) or international tariff, rule 60 (Limitation of liability for baggage or goods), for more information.
For more information about your passenger rights see below or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency website or review the Air Passenger Protection Regulations.
Dangerous goods
Items identified as dangerous goods and removed from checked baggage are held by WestJet for up to a maximum of 72 hours pending storage availability. Items not recovered after 72 hours will be disposed of.
If you experienced an error while creating a baggage report or spoke to a Baggage Services Agent at the airport and were not given a file number, please contact us.
Helpful Links
Canadian passenger rights
Airport terminal information
Our airline partners
Delay and cancellation claims
Denied boarding
Packing checklist
Submit expenses
Travelling with musical instruments
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
Home
Flight interruptions and passenger rights
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
Flight delays, cancellations, and schedule changes
We know that any type of interruption to your schedule can be challenging and inconvenient. To minimize any inconvenience, we will do our best to keep you informed, and get you on your way as quickly and safely as possible.
WestJet and WestJet Encore by policy do not overbook flights, a common practice in the airline industry. However, there may be times where substitutions of aircraft or seat configuration changes are made for operational requirements. As a result, a larger or smaller aircraft or different seating configuration may be used for your flight. Either way, we will ensure that the impact on your travel is minimized.
If you are denied boarding, your flight is delayed or cancelled for at least two hours, or your baggage is lost or damaged, you may be entitled to certain standards of treatment and compensation under the Air Passenger Protection Regulations. For more information about your passenger rights please complete the Canadian Passenger Rights Contact Form or visit the Canadian Transportation Agency’s website.
Learn more about flight interruptions to flights departing, arriving or diverted through the United States.
Tarmac delays
A Tarmac Delay is when your flight is ready to take off (and the doors of the aircraft are closed) or your flight has just landed (and the doors of the aircraft are closed), but you are kept waiting in the plane. We will do what we can to make you comfortable during a Tarmac Delay, including the following:

1. WestJet will provide you with access to working lavatories, proper ventilation and heating or cooling, food and drink, and the ability to communicate with people outside the plane free of charge, when feasible (“Tarmac Delay Services”). If you require urgent medical assistance during a tarmac delay, we will take all reasonable steps to facilitate access to medical assistance.

After a 3 hour tarmac delay at an airport in Canada, the plane will return to the gate so you can disembark if safe to do so. A plane can stay on the tarmac for up to 45 additional minutes, if it is likely that it will take off within that period and we are able to continue providing the same Tarmac Delay Services, when feasible.

2. This short extension is to ensure that the plane can take off if there is a reasonable prospect of this occurring – so that you can reach your final destination without the inconvenience of further delay or a flight cancellation.

If it is not likely that the plane can take off within the additional 45 minute window, the plane will return to the gate, unless it is prevented for reasons related to safety, security, customs control or air traffic control.

Depending on the circumstances, it may not be possible for WestJet to allow you to disembark from the aircraft during a Tarmac Delay, for various reasons, including but not limited to concerns related to safety, security, or due to directions by Air Traffic Control or Customs Control.

If the plane returns to the gate for disembarking because of a tarmac delay, disembarking priority will be available to passengers with disabilities and their support person, service animal or emotional support animal, if any, upon request and when feasible.
Schedule changes
Changes to your flight schedule
Schedule changes are adjustments to flight times and destinations. Unfortunately, even though we prefer not to make schedule changes, they do happen. Generally, schedule changes are made because of adjustments to air traffic routes, airport requests, construction at airport facilities, security constraints, market forces, partner airline schedules and so on.

Should you experience a schedule change, WestJet will make every effort to contact you in a timely manner (via email) to advise you of a change. The email will contain information about your old flight itinerary and your new flight itinerary. Depending on the magnitude of the schedule change, the email may also include the option to accept the change, decline the change (and request a refund), or instructions on how to make a change to your new flight itinerary.

For flights booked directly with WestJet (westjet.com, contact centre, etc.), Please refer to the chart below, which displays how WestJet contacts guests in most schedule change situations.

WestJet schedule change communication	Schedule change criteria
One (1) schedule change email will be sent 90 days prior to departure
Flight is departing no more than one hour later than the original flight.
Flight is departing no more than 15 minutes earlier than the original flight.
Departure time remains the same but connection times are different (up to three hours).
Flight time remains the same but flight number has changed.
Up to four (4) schedule change emails will be sent starting 90 days prior to departure
Phone call if there is no guest action resulting from emails, or if the schedule change requires alternate planning directly with the guest (including WestJet Vacations or Group Bookings)
Flight is departing 16 to 30 minutes prior than the original flight.
Flight is departing 1 to 3 hours later on the same day.
Direct or non-stop flight was changed to a connecting flight.
Up to four (4) schedule change emails will be sent within 72 hours of when the change has been made
Phone call if there is no guest action resulting from emails, or if the schedule change requires alternate planning directly with the guest (including WestJet Vacations or Group Bookings)
Flight is departing more than 3 hours later on the same day.
Flight now has an overnight connection.
Flight is departing more than 30 minutes prior to original departure.